The US Department of Agriculture's Weather Bureau begins an observation program in the Carolina Bank Building on Broad Street in downtown Charleston, taking over from the US Army Signal Service. Mr. JN Jesonofsky is the last observer for the Signal Service in Charleston, but the first in Charleston for the Weather Bureau.
The highest recorded level on the Ohoopee River near Reidsville was reached, when the river reached 28.40 feet.
1 inch of snow fell in Beaufort on this date.
Significant coastal flooding impacts many parts of the southern SC coast, and when combined with strong northeast winds resulted in extensive erosion and damage to numerous homes. This event prompted the passage of the South Carolina State Beach Front Management Act. Tide levels also reached 10.03 feet Mean Lower Low Water at Fort Pulaski, which produced flooding on parts of Route 80 between Savannah and Tybee Island.
An F0 tornado briefly touched down, significantly damaging a mobile home, causing minor damage to another mobile home, and knocking down trees in southern Jenkins County, GA.
Winds reached as high as 40 to 50 mph across parts of southern South Carolina, southeast Georgia and the adjacent Atlantic waters. The highest wind was at the Sabsoon R2 Tower, which recorded 54 mph.
Dense fog closes the Charleston Harbor and also impacts the adjacent Charleston County Atlantic waters with visibilities down under 1/2 nm. It is short-lived however, as an arctic cold front quickly moves through with isolated reports of trees and powerlines down, as winds reach as high as 47 mph on Tybee Island and 42 mph at Hunter Army Airfield in Savannah.
Dense sea fog closes the Charleston Harbor and also impacts the nearby Atlantic waters, as visibilities fall to near zero.
It was a cold morning across many areas, with readings as low as 14 at Harleyville, Jamestown and Round O in South Carolina. Even the beaches experienced a freeze with temperatures in the upper 20s and lower 30s.
Strong west and northwest winds developed in wake of an arctic cold front, resulting in blowout tides and wind gusts past 40 or 45 mph. The highest gusts were 49 mph at Fort Johnson, 48 mph on Tybee Island and the Don Holt Bridge in North Charleston, 47 mph at Buoy 41008 and Fort Pulasksi, and 46 mph at Beaufort. The event is even more impressive since less than 19 hours earlier there was shallow coastal flooding in the Charleston area.
A rare winter storm affected southeast South Carolina and southeast Georgia on January 3, 2018. The storm produced a variety of wintry precipitation, including snow, sleet and freezing rain. Charleston Airport (KCHS) measured 5.3 inches of snow, the 3rd greatest daily snowfall on record. This made it the snowiest January on record at Charleston Airport and 2nd snowiest at Savannah Airport (KSAV). Due to the continued cold air in place after the storm, the snow and ice remained on the ground in spots for many days causing significant disruptions to travel and commerce. The Charleston Airport recorded snow on the ground for 5 consecutive days which is the most on record.
Dense sea fog impacts navigation in Charleston Harbor and the nearby Atlantic waters with visibility down to near zero at times.
An EF-1 tornado moves through the Savannah area, with estimated winds of 85-95 mph, a path length of 3 miles and a path width of 1/4 mile. Thankfully no one was killed or injured.More Details.
Dense sea fog closes the Charleston Harbor and also impacts the nearby Atlantic waters, as visibilities fall to near zero.
The US Army Signal Service begins a weather observing progam in downtown Charleston at the Carolina Bank Building on Broad Street.
A brief F0 tornado touches down near Register in Bulloch County, GA. A mobile home was demolished and a small utility trailer was thrown some distance.
Today marked the third day in a row with dense sea fog impacting Charleston Harbor, the nearby Atlantic waters and the intracoastal.
Another day with dense sea fog, as visibilities fall to near zero at times in Charleston Harbor and the nearby Atlantic.
Winds reached 50 mph or more across parts of the area. This included 53 mph at Sullivans Island, 52 mph at Sapelo Island and at Buoy 41004, with even 50 mph as far inland as Hunter Army Air Field near Savannah and at Fort Stewart in Hinesville.
The polar vortex plunges south into southern Canada and the Great Lakes, causing temperatures locally down into the teens in many areas. This includes the coldest of 13 degrees at both Allendale and Walterboro. Downtown Charleston drops to 20 degrees, its coldest reading since 1996.
An arctic cold front moves through the area accompanied by light snow and sleet in several areas, mainly in SC during the evening. There was even a light glaze on cars and grassy surface in a few spots. In addition, gale force winds occurred over the Atlantic and in Charleston Harbor, with wind gusts over land of 30-35 mph.
The leading edge of an arctic air mass produces a few snow flurries in parts of Charleston and Berkeley counties.
The world record 24 hour rainfall comes to an end with 71.85 inches of rain at Foc Foc on the Indian Ocean island of La Reunion Island. Locally, our 24 hour rainfall records pale in comparison; 10.52 inches on September 21, 1998 at the Charleston airport, 10.38 inches on June 11, 1973 in downtown Charleston and 9.02 inches on September 16, 1924 in the Savannah area. More Details.
It was a bitterly cold start to the day across the area, with readings down in the teens, even at the coast.
One of the lowest tide levels in recorded history occurs at Fort Pulaski, the result of blow-out tides across the area. Temperatures also failed to reach freezing in most communities after morning lows down in the single numbers and teens.
A 2.2 magnitude earthquake occurred near Summerville, SC.
Strong offshore wind results in blow-out tides at Fort Pulaski.
Another blow-out tide, this time at Charleston.
Winter weather impacts the area, with a significant amount of freezing rain creating havoc in regards to travel. There are reports of as much as 1 inch of ice in Allendale and Martin, South Carolina, with 3/4 inches at Sylvania, Georgia. There is even freezing rain in downtown Charleston. In addition, as much as 0.5 to 1.5 inches of snow also fell across parts of Charleston and Berkeley County.
Weather records from noted weather historian David Ludlum indicated there were reports of as much as 18 inches of snow in Savannah, with 8 to 10 inches in Charleston, accompanied by significant drifting with gale force winds. The snow fell continuously for 36 hours from the late evening of January 9th through the early morning of January 11th.
An F1 tornado touches down west of Millen, GA and destroys or heavily damages several farm buildings.
Strong offshore wind results in blow-out tides in Charleston.
Almost 4 inches of rain falls at the Charleston Airport, when 3.90 inches occurs. This is the wettest calendar day in January for the airport in recorded history.
A snowstorm affects the low country, with up to 2 inches in Beaufort and Summerville, and 1.5 inches in Charleston.
An F0 tornado touches down about 5 miles south of Sylvania, GA.
Saint George in South Carolina reports 4 inches of snow, their second highest on record.
Several homes are flooded as the Canoochee River at Claxton reaches its highest recorded level, at 16.60 feet.
Today is the last day of the longest stretch of temperatures dropping to 30 degrees of colder at the Charleston Airport and in the Savannah area. For 13 straight days the temperature falls to 30 degrees or lower at both locations.
It was a bitterly cold day across the area, with highs in many locations only in the mid and upper 30s, after morning lows mostly in the teens.
A squall line moves across southern Georgia, producing brief tornadoes near Collins and Glennville in Tattnall County, with a third near Hinesville where 4 people were injured.
Downtown Charleston has its wettest January day, when 2.63 inches of rain falls in the city.
The warmest recorded temperature in January occurs at the Charleston Airport, with a high on this date of 83 degrees.
Sleet is reported in many parts of southern South Carolina.
Benjamin Franklin was born on this date. He was the first person to chart the Gulf Stream and discovered that lightning is electricity. 
Wind chills are down as low as the teens in many areas, with morning lows mostly in the 20s.
There are reports of flurries and sleet in a few locations of the forecast area, with a small coating of sleet on elevated surfaces in isolated locations of northern Dorchester and northern Berkeley counties.
Today is the wettest January day at Savannah, with 3.48 inches of rainfall
Downtown Charleston receives 1.9 inches of snow, its greatest on record. There is also 1 inch of snow reported at Savannah.
There is 4/10 of an inch of snow that fell at the Charleston airport on this date.
With temperatures as cold as the lower and middle 30s, sleet falls in both Beaufort and Summerville.
Many areas experience wind chills down in the teens during the morning hours, with actual air temperatures in lower and middle 20s.
An F1 tornado travels about 3/4 miles through Ridgeland, SC. Fortunately no one was injured.
The airport at Savannah receives 4.20 inches of rainfall on this date.
The temperature of 43 degrees at the airport in Charleston is not only a record low for the date, but also the coldest so late in the spring season.
The Tybee Island lifeguards reported multiple rip currents and 1 assist of a swimmer caught in a rip current, the result of onshore winds, small but long period swells and the recent perigee.
The Charleston airport experiences 4.88 inches, and it reverses the yearly rainfall deficit of more than 3 inches to around 1 1/2 inches of a surplus in just a few hours.
The temperature in downtown Charleston falls to 45 degrees, making it the coldest May day in recorded history.
Golf ball sized hail damages cars, trucks and considerable crops in Claxton, GA.
A brief F0 tornado touches down on Tybee island, causing damage to trees.
Two brief F0 tornadoes are reported in Berkeley County, SC. The first near St. Stephen and the second in Bonneau.
A widespread severe weather outbreak hits the area, with a phlethora of reports of hail and wind damage. This includes a report of hail in Smoaks, SC as large as 3 inches in diameter.
Tropical Storm Alberto develops about 140 miles east southeast of Charleston and moves south. Highest winds were 46 mph at the buoy at Grays Reef.
A M1.2 earthquake occurs near Summerville, SC.
A tropical storm produces damage from Beaufort to Georgetown, SC.
Three different tornadoes inpact Charleston and Dorchester counties, including an F1 in downtown Charleston and another F1 in the Old Village section of Mt. Pleasant. The last tornado was an F0 that touches down in a swampy area of southern Dorchester County.
A 2.5 eathquake occurred around 314 PM EDT about 4 miles west-southwest of Summervillle, SC.
A waterspout was sighted near the south end of St. Catherine's Island, GA.
The airport in Charleston receives 5.18 inches on this date.
Tropical Storm Iris gets too close to Hurricane Hugo and begins to weaken, while Hugo continues to gain strength.
Today marks the death of John Lining, a Scottish immigrant who lived in Charles Town. Many people in Charles Town adopted his idea with Ben Franklin about using lightning rods as protection on their homes.
 Hurricane Hugo makes landfall in Charleston, SC around midnight of the 21st into the 22nd as a Cat 4 hurricane. This is the first major hurricane to make landfall in SC since Gracie in 1959. It produced the greatest storm surge and highest storm tides of 15 to 20 feet above Mean Sea Level near Cape Romain, with around 10-12 feet near Charleston Harbor. Highest winds occurred in northern Charleston County where Category 4 conditions were experienced. 78 MPH winds with gusts to 98 MPH were measured at the Charleston Airport, with downtown Charleston recording a wind gust of 108 MPH. The Coast Guard Cutter "Rambler" in the Cooper River reported a 138 MPH gust.More Details
Impressive rains impact the area, with the Charleston airport receiving its greatest one day total at 10.52 inches, while downtown Charleston receives its highest amount in September at 8.50 inches.
The Savannah area reaches 100 degrees, the latest such occurrence of 100 degrees since records began.
There are two tornadoes that impacted Allendale County in association with the remnants of Tropical Storm Helene as she moved across Georgia and South Carolina. Both an F2 and F1 tornado occurs near Martin, causing one death, six injuries and $300,000 damage. There is also an F0 tornado that briefly touches down near Perkins in Jenkins County, GA. Earlier in the day heavy rains caused flooding over the northern half of Berkeley County, especially in and around Moncks Corner.
An F2 tornado injures 8 and causes a 2 mile path of damage in Savannah.
Hurricane Rita reached the border of TX and LA near Sabine Pass as a Cat 3 and maximum sustained winds of 120 mph. The storm surge was as high as 15 feet over parts of LA, where sugar cane crop losses were estimated near $300 million. Meanwhile locally, it was an unusually hot day with readings over 90 in many areas. The highest was at Summerville where temperatures climbed to 95 degrees.
The temperature at the Charleston airport tops out at 95 degrees, making it the hottest temperature for that location so late in the year.
For the 98th and last time during the year, the temperature at the Charleston airport reaches at least 90 degrees. This is greatest number of days with a temperature of 90 degrees or higher at that location since records began in 1938.
An F0 tornado briefly touches down on Hilton Head Island not far from the present day golf course at Palmetto Dunes. Meanwhile, an F1 tornado briefly touches down in the southeast part of Candler County, GA near the Canoochee River.
Hurricane Emily passes about 900 miles east of the local area in the Atlantic, moving northeast at 45 mph and crosses Bermuda. It produced wind gusts to 115 mph at Kindley Key on the island and resulted in $35 million in damage. Meanwhile locally, temperatures reached the lower and middle 80s.
An EF-2 tornado that tracks almost 7 miles through Charleston County, impacting areas of Johns Island from about 1242 am to 1259 am, travelling from near Cane Slash Road until dissipating near Highway 17 between Main Road and Bees Ferry Road. As many as 70 to 80 homes were damaged, but fortunately no one was hurt.More Details
A small M1.9 earthquake occurs on Pine Island, just to the southwest of Edisto Island, SC.
Downtown Charleston receives 4.86 inches of rain on this date.
As part of Project Stormfury, the research program for hurricane modification, silver iodide was dropped into Hurricane Ginger. No significant effect on weakening the storm was detected.
Today is the last day of a stretch of 139 straight days where the temperature hit 80 degrees or greater in the Savannah area; it's longest streak on record.
Today is the birthday of Henry Melson Stommel, an American oceanographer and meteorologist. He was considered an expert on Physical Oceanography, such as the interpretation of data associated with large scale ocean dynamics.
A cloudy, wet and cool day in many areas, with some inland locations failing to even get out of the 60s.
A total of 6 tornadoes occurred across the area in association with Hurricane Jeanne. There were four F-0 tornadoes in GA and 2 F-0 tornadoes in SC. Significant flooding occurred in downtown Charleston due to the combined effects of high tide and heavy rains.
Chatham County Emergency Management reported that rip currents in the waters off of Tybee Island caused 3 fatalities and 2 injuries in a group of people during a religious celebration. First responders on the scene pulled 5 people out of the water and rushed 4 of them to Memorial University Medical Center. Two of those pulled from the water were pronounced dead at the hospital and crews searched area waters for a third person for 2 days following the event. This person was never found and was presumed deceased.
A Cat 1 hurricane makes its second landfall near Charleston after initially striking north FL from the Gulf of Mexico. It produced downed telegraph lines in Charleston and extensive damage to rice crops.
A funnel cloud briefly touches down as an F0 tornado near Trident Tech College off of Rivers Avenue in North Charleston, then takes down the tops of several other trees outside of Hanahan in Berkeley County before dissipating.
Today is the last day of a stretch of 127 straight days where the temperature hit 80 degrees or greater in downtown Charleston; it's longest streak on record.
Five tornadoes that were likely spawned by a tropical depression, ravaged the SC Lowcountry. Two of the tornadoes were ranked F2, with the other three rated as F1. More Details
Major Hurricane Gracie makes landfall in Saint Helena Sound, producing winds of 138 mph near Beaufort, SC and estimated winds of 150 mph along coastal sections of Beaufort, Colleton and Charleston Counties. More Details
The remnants of Hurricane Gracie spawned three tornadoes in Ivy, VA. Meanwhile locally, the subsidence in wake of the hurricane produced a very warm and dry day, with highs near 90 in many areas.
The month ends with 18 days of measurable rainfall at the Charleston airport. This ties 2014 with 1979 for the most days in September with measurable rainfall.
A small 1.7 earthquake occurs in the early morning about 3 miles northwest of the Charleston Airport.
The month ends with an average temperature of 81.5 degrees at the Charleston airport, establishing the record for the warmest September on record at that location.
