Today is the anniversary of the first U.S. hurricane warning when the U.S. Army Signal Corps warned of a hurricane threat on the East Coast from Cape May, N.J. to New London, Connecticut. This storm missed the U.S. but hit Newfoundland, Canada on Aug. 26. It killed at least 223 people, mostly on ships at sea.
A small F1 tornado touched down near Richmond Hill, GA.
A waterspout is observed off the coast of St. Catherines Island, GA.
One person was indirectly affected by lightning during a field practice at Georgia Southern University in Statesboro.
A brief waterspout is observed near the mouth of St. Helena Sound.
A total solar eclipse occurs across the area, just before thunderstorms develop in some locations. There is as much as an 8 to 12 degree temperature drop in some areas during the totality. More Details
There are four hurricanes in the Atlantic Basin during this time. One off Nova Scotia, a second between the Bahamas and Bermuda, the third near the Lesser Antilles and one that recently formed off the Cape Verdes. It wouldn't happen again until 1998, when there were four hurricanes active at the same time. One of the storms from 1893 eventually made landfall near Savannah as a Cat 3 hurricane on August 27 - the Great Sea Islands Hurricane.
Temperatures reached 100 to 105 degrees in many communities, with even upper 90s at the coast.
Large and long period swells originating from Hurricane Bill well east of the Georgia coast, resulted in numerous rip currents and 9 water rescues at Tybee Island.
There are reports of a funnel cloud or possible waterspout near the Charleston Harbor jetties and also near Capers Inlet, SC.
The Ogeechee River near Eden dropped to 1.70 feet, its lowest level on record.
Today marked the third day in a row with rip currents, resulting in 11 rescues at the beaches.
A small 2.0 earthquake occurred 4 miles southwest of Ladson, SC.
And 2 years later a 2.1 earthquake occurs 4 miles northwest of Ladson, SC.
August 24, 2010
Two waterspouts were sighted near the mouth of Charleston Harbor.
A Cat 2 hurricane makes landfall near Charleston, resulting in severe damage. Winds were estimated as high as 100-125 mph in the Charleston area.
The Savannah airport receives 5.75 inches of rain.
A waterspout is observed off the coast of Folly Beach, SC.
A M2.4 earthquake is recorded in Summerville, SC. Later in the day there are sightings of a waterspout off the north coast of Hilton Head Island and another around 3 hours later off the coast of Forest Beach on Hilton Head Island.
The South Santee River near Jamestown reaches 30 feet, its third highest level in recorded history.
Hurricane Irene passes about 175 to 200 miles off the coast, but still produces significant coastal flooding, large surf and beach erosion. Several streets in downtown Charleston area closed for hours due to the flooding.More Details
The second of 3 tropical cyclones to affect the area that year occurs when the so-called Great Sea Islands Hurricane strikes just south of Savannah as a Cat 3 hurricane. The system caused a surge of greater than 16 feet with over $10 million damage. More Details
The lifeguards on Tybee island reported at least 15 rip current related rescues throughout the day.
A waterspout is sighted just off the coast of Sullivan's Island, SC.
Tropical Storm Chris makes landfall near Savannah. Rainfall was generally around 1 to 3 inches across our SC counties and an inch or less in GA. More Details
Torrential rains impacted the Charleston metro area, with as much as 7.50 inches on Daniel Island and at West Ashley. More Details
The central pressure of Hurricane Katrina drops to 902 millibars or 26.64 inches. This makes it the fifth lowest pressure recorded in an Atlantic Basin hurricane. She makes landfall on August 29 as the third most intense landfalling hurricane in US history with a central pressure of 920 millibars or 27.27 inches. More Details
Rainfall reaches 8.38 inches in the Savannah area on this date.
Tropical Storm Cleo moves ashore on Sapelo Island, causing an F2 tornado near the present day Mt. Pleasant Memorial Waterfront Park injuring two, and an F1 tornado in the Francis Marion National Forest. There was extensive flooding in some areas, with as much as 8.68 inches of rain in Vernon View, GA in Chatham County.
Cool and wet weather affects the SC Low Country and GA Coastal empire, with highs only in the middle 60s and lows in the middle and upper 50s. The resulting average daily temperatures of 60.5 degrees at the Charleston airport, 61.5 degrees in the Savannah area and 62.5 degrees in downtown Charleston will make this the coolest day for all three locations during recorded history in the month of August.
An F1 tornado touches down near Bonneau Road in Berkeley County, between Bonneau and Moncks Corner.
Hurricane Gaston makes landfall near Bulls Bay, SC and produces major flooding in parts of Charleston and Berkeley County where 12-15 inches of rain were recorded. Total damage estimates included about $7.6 million in Charleston County and $9 million in Berkeley County.
An F0 tornado briefly touched down in a corn field near the intersection of Highways 129 and 169 north of Bellville in Evans County, GA. No significant damage occurred.
The temperature at the Savannah airport reaches only 65 degrees, while at Beaufort the temperature only hits 64 degrees. For both locations this will be the lowest maximum temperature on record during the month of August.
An airplane pilot reports a few waterspouts over the Atlantic waters about 20 miles southeast of Savannah.
A devastating 7.3 earthquake occurs with an epicenter near Charleston and Summerville. This is the most damaging earthquake to occur in the southeast states and one of the largest historic shocks in eastern North America. More Details
The three month period of June, July and August of this year is the warmest on record at the Charleston airport and in the Savannah area. The mean temperature In Charleston is 83.4 degrees, while at Savannah their mean temperature is 84.0 degrees. More Details
A near epic type of flooding rain event occurred in parts of the area mainly near and east of I-95. There was as much as 4-8 inches of rain in parts of the Charleston metro, over sections of eastern Jasper County and along and near the Edisto River in the Canadys, SC region. Dozens of homes and businesses were flooded in portions of the North Charleston and West Ahsley areas; numerous roads were flooded and closed; many people were displaced and moved to Red Cross shelters; a portion of an embankment collapsed near I-526 in North Charleston. To complicate the situation, tides were running high due to the recent Perigean Spring Tides and there were also some low topped suppercells that caused wind damage in parts of Colleton and Dorchester counties, with a thunderstorm wind of 44 mph recorded at Fort Sumter in Charleston Harbor. If that wasn't enough, some of the heaviest rains occurred during a Monday morning rush hour, causing delays by up to 2 or 3 hours. More Details
The month ends with the warmest August on record at the Charleston International Airport. An average monthly temperature of 83.8 degrees was 2.9 degrees above the normal August average of 80.9 degrees.
The Savannah Airport receives its greatest January snow, with 1.3 inches on this date.
Parts of route 80 near Tybee Island and Savannah are flooded, as tides reach 10.00 feet Mean Lower Low Water at Fort Pulaski.
The Charleston airport ends the month with its driest January on record. Only 0.35 inches of rain occurred during the entire month, which is 3.36 inches below the normal monthly total for January.
January 28, 1887
The largest snowflakes in the world are reported at Fort Keogh, Montana; 15 inches wide and 8 inches thick.
January 28, 1986
Record low temperatures for the date are set in many locations, with cold temperatures down into the lower and middle teens in southern SC and southeast GA.
January 30, 2010
Parts of Highway 80 from Savannah to Tybee Island is flooded, as tides reach 9.95 feet Mean Lower Low Water. One lane of the highway is closed in various sections, 2 cars get stuck in the high water, and several properties on Tybee Island are also flooded. Also on this day, the tide reaches 8.0 feet Mean Lower Low Water in Charleston, with several reports of salt water flooding and erosion from Hilton Head to the Charleston area. Both events had the situation further aggravated due to occurrence of the Proxigean Spring Tide.
January 30, 2014
For the second day in a row winter weather impacts the area. This time it's freezing drizzle and light freezing rain that occurs in the Charleston Tri-County area, with a light glaze in many locations. This was the result of continued cold air across the area and a second wave of low pressure that passed just offshore on a stalled out front.s
