A tropical storm struck SC with a glancing blow before moving into NC near Cape Lookout.
The temperature in downtown Charleston peaks at 100 degrees on this date.
Downtown Charleston hits 100 degrees for the second day in a row.
An F0 tornado briefly touches down 3 miles south of Hunter Army Air Field, GA.
Two day rainfall totals reach mid-boggling proportions, with 8 inches or more from Hilton Head, SC to Savannah, Fleming and St. Catherines Island, GA. A whopping 15 inches was reported in downtown Savannah with a maximum of 17 inches near Keller, GA. More Details
Tropical Storm Hermine moves northeast through southeast GA and southeast SC, producing strong winds, heavy rain and 2 EF-1 tornadoes in GA. One tornado touched down on Skidaway Island and the second touched down near Southeast Newport in Liberty County. More Details
A waterspout moved onshore over Hunting Island State Park as an F2 tornado, and then moves over the east part of St. Helena Island, before crossing St. Helena Sound and moving back onshore of Colleton County as an F1 tornado near Otter Island and Hutchinson Island. Later that day an F1 tornado hitsto the southeast of Green Pond, SC and a fourth tornado, an F2 strikes near Moncks Corner. Several people were injured and there was unfortunately one fatality. There is also an F2 tornado that injures 7 people in Screven County, GA near Sylvania. Dozens of mobile homes were damaged or destroyed. The tornadoes were spawned by Tropical Storm Earl as he moved through Georgia from the Gulf of Mexico.
The site at Savannah hits 102 degrees, its hottest temperature for any year in September.
Downtown Charleston reaches 100 degrees on this date.
An F1 tornado briefly touches down in Bulloch County, GA just north of Stilson.
Hurricane David makes landfall near the GA/SC border as a Cat 2 hurricane. It produced 5 tornadoes, 6-8 inches of rain, heavy beach erosion and $10 million damage. More Details
Thunderstorms produced up to 8 inches of rain in the Charleston area.
The lifeguards at Tybee Island report almost 3 dozen people were rescued due to rip currents.
A small cluster of thunderstorms intensified near Lobeco and Dale in Beaufort County, SC during the afternoon, before rapidly collapsing near the Whale Branch River. The downburst high winds uprooted and snapped 10 large water oak trees and 2 mobile homes sustained minor damage. The level and extent of the damage was consistent with straight line winds of 60 to 70 mph.
The temperature in downtown Charleston hits the century mark, its latest yearly occurrence on record of 100 degrees.
The Savannah airport receives 8.47 inches of rain.
The Savannah airport receives 9.73 inches of rain.
Thunderstorms drenched the area, with as much as 6 inches of rain at the Charleston airport. Over 5 inches of rain was recorded in downtown Charleston, and combined with the rains from August 30 through September 7, this was part of over 18 inches of rain that fell in downtown Charleston. This caused extensive flooding and also resulted in a large increase in the number of mosquitoes across the region.
The Charleston airport reaches its hottest temperature in September, when the mercury hits 100 degrees.
A waterspout was observed in the marshy area between the Intra-coastal and Bulls Bay, near Awendaw, SC.
Downtown Charleston receives its greatest calendar day rainfall in September, when 10.33 inches of rain fell on this date. When combined with the 1.39 inches they received the day before it brings the 2 day total to 11.72 inches. Of that amount, 10.57 inches fell in a 24 hour period, making it an all-time 24 hour rainfall record for this location.
A waterspout is reported just outside the Charleston Harbor.
The "Captain Smoke" ship sank 45 miles east of Charleston, liekly caused by two rogue waves that smashed it to bits, leaving it's three fishermen in a life raft. They were later rescued by the US Coast Guard.
A waterspout was sighted from the Isle of Palms Connector and estimated to be near Capers Inlet.
The National Weather Service confirms 20 tornadoes in the local forecast and warning area in association with Tropical Cyclone Frances. More Details
A hurricane makes landfall near Beaufort, SC, with considerable damage and over 500 dead.
A Cat 3 hurricane hits near Savannah causing considerable damage to property.
A trained NWS spotter reports 2 waterspouts 6 miles east of Fripp Island that lasted about 8 minutes before they dissipated.
Downtown Charleston receives 6.26 inches of rain on this date.
Waterspouts were sighted 9 miles southeast of Sullivan's Island and 8 miles east of Folly Beach.
September 10
Today marks the date when historically tropical cyclones reach their maximum in the Atlantic Basin. On September 10th the chance of having a hurricane in the Atlantic Basin is greater than at any other date during the year. More Details
September 10, 1811
A tropical storm makes landfall north of Charleston, producing a tornado in the downtown area. Possibly more than 500 people were killed as a result.
September 10, 2004
A waterspout is reported off the coast of Fripp Island, SC.
September 10 and 11, 2017
Tropical Storm Irma, that makes landfall as a Category 4 hurricane in the Florida Keys, impacts the local area. The storm brought significant storm surge inundation and wind gusts near hurricane-force to coastal areas, as well as several tornadoes, flooding rains and river flooding. More Details
September 11, 1951
The Ogeechee River at Midville drops to its second lowest level in recorded history, when the river drops to minus 2.20 feet.
September 11, 1960
Hurricane Donna passed northeast in the Atlantic off the coast of GA and SC, producing an F3 tornado that traveled westward for almost 9 miles from the vicinity of the Ben Sawyer Bridge near Sullivan's Island to the St. Andrews Shopping Center near Charles Towne Landing State Park. There was extensive damage and several were injured by flying debris and shattered glass.
September 11, 1984
Hurricane Diana passes north and northeast off the SC coast out near the Gulf Stream. It produced 32 mph winds in downtown Charleston and 35 mph winds at Tybee Island, with as much as 1-3 inches of rain across the area. More Details
September 11, 2013
There are reports of a waterspout and 2 other funnel clouds in a 30 minute span off the coast of Hunting Island, SC.
September 11, 2014
One year later there is at least one waterspout sighted near Bull Island, SC.
September 12, 1878
A Cat 1 hurricane makes landfall near Beaufort.
September 12, 1954
The second lowest recorded level is observed on the Ohoopee River near Reidsville, with a gage reading of approximately 0.52 feet.
