Today is the median last freeze date for Hilton Head Island, SC.
The highest river level on record occurs on the Ohoopee near Reidsville, when the river crests at 28.40 feet.
The Community Collaborative Rain, Hail & Snow Network (CoCoRaHS) officially starts in South Carolina. More Details.
A powerful low pressure system in the upper levels of the atmosphere produces winds as high as 40 to 50 mph over some coastal counties, 30 to 40 mph winds further inland, widespread 1 to 3 inch of rains, and even a trace of snow in Bluffton, Jedberg, Richmond Hill and Dover.
Today is the median last freeze date for Beaufort, SC and Fort Stewart, GA.
While nearby NC is dumped with 14-18 inches of snow, downtown Charleston receives a trace of snow on this date, with a high temperature of only 43 degrees.
Savannah receives 10 inches of snow.
The tide at Fort Pulaski falls to its second lowest level in recorded history, with a gauge reading of minus 4.30 feet Mean Lower Low Water.
It was a cold start to the day, with the all-time lowest in March for downtown Charleston and the Charleston Airport. Downtown was 22 degrees, while it was 15 degrees at the airport. It also tied for the coldest in March in the Savannah area, with a temperature of 20 degrees.
A small F1 tornado touches down outside of Glennville in Tattnall County, GA. There were 5 houses, several farm buildings, a government building, a school and a factory that were either demolished or heavily damaged. No one was hurt. Later that same day there was 1.75 inch hail and a roof torn off an airplane hangar at Guyton, in Effingham County, GA.
Snow flurries were observed in Pooler, GA.
An EF-1 tornado, with winds of 105 mph impacts parts of Liberty County from outside of Riceboro to near Halfmoon Landing. One truck and one motorcyclist reportedly hit debris from the tornado that was thrown on I-95, injuring the motorcyclist. More Details.
Winds reached 35 to 45 mph in many areas, with the highest wind of 48 at Pineville, near Lake Moultrie.
The first computerized weather model began on the first-ever electronic computer in the world. The machine was called ENIAC, or Electronic Numerical Integrator And Computer. ENIAC was founded at the University of Pennsylvania, then moved to an Army research lab in Maryland where the first forecasts took place. More Details.
Record 1-day rainfalls for the month of March occur at both the Charleston and Savannah Airports. 4.48 inches falls at Charleston, with 3.57 inches at Savannah.
Today is the median last freeze date for the Savannah airport.
The temperature of 20 degrees at the airport in Savannah and 21 degrees at the airport in Charleston were both the coldest temperatures so late in the winter and early spring season.
Winds in wake of a strong cold front reached past 40 mph in many locations. This included 50 mph atop the Don Holt Bridge in Charleston, 48 mph at Fort Pulaski and 51 mph near Remleys Point, SC. These strong offshore winds also resulted in blow-out tides along coastal sections.
A 58 mph wind gust is reported at the Sabsoon R2 Tower, as a line of severe thunderstorms moves through the local waters. There is also a brief EF0 tornado that touches down north of Crescent in McIntosh County, GA.
Today is the median last freeze date at the Charleston airport.
An F1 tornado touches down in Estill, SC and destroys several trailers and takes the roof off of 2 homes. One auto was damaged as a mobile home rolled into it.
Strong offshore wind results in blow-out tides in the Fort Pulaski area.
Strong winds impacted parts of southern South Carolina and southeast Georgia, reaching as high as 58 mph on the Ben Sawyer Bridge to Sullivans Island and 62 mph at the Sabsoon M2R6 Tower. These winds also resulted in impressive blow-out tides along the coast.More Details.
An incredible 367 inches of snow was measured on the ground at the Rainier Paradise Ranger Station in Washington. The snow depth was a state record and the second highest total of record for the continental U.S. Meanwhile locally, freezing temperatures were observed in most communities, with the cold spots of 26 degrees at Walterboro, SC and 29 degrees near Millen, GA.
An F1 tornado moves through a marshy area near Patriots Point in Mount Pleasant, SC.
The temperature hits 90 degrees at the Charleston airport, which ties for the hottest in March and also its hottest so early in the year. The Savannah airport hits 91 degrees, which is its hottest so early in the year.
Today is the median last freeze date for Glennville, GA.
Radiation fog that developed over land areas moves into the Charleston harbor and nearby Atlantic, lowering visibilities to near 1/2 mile.
Today is the median last freeze date for Sullivan's Island, SC.
The temperatures tops out at 90 degrees at the Savannah airport, tying it with March 12, 1955 for the second earliest 90 degree reading in the year.
A short-lived F1 tornado touches down just outside of Ladson in Charleston County.
Strong winds developed in wake of an arctic cold front during the late evening and overnight hours, producing wind gusts as high as 40 to 45 mph in many location. The highest winds were 53 mph at Fort Pulaski and 48 mph at the Charleston airport.
Today is the median last freeze date for Brooklet, GA.
Low pressure dumps up to 4 or 5 inches of rain in parts of SC, with some of the worst flooding in the Summerville area, where 400 people were evacuated from their homes. Up to 50 homes were damaged to some degree, with s much as 4 to 5 feet of water in some of those homes. Also, an earthen dam burst in Allendale County, which caused a 100 yard section of US 321 near Fairfax to be washed away.
The lowest tide level in recorded history occurs at Charleston, while Fort Pulaski drops to their third lowest level on record. These occurred in the wake of the so-called "Storm of the Century" in 1993. More Details.
A waterspout is sighted off the coast of Sullivans Island, South Carolina, that later moves onshore as an F1 tornado and causes minor damage to a home. Fifteen minutes later an F1 tornado causes damage to a home and 2 trailers in Awendaw.
The temperature at Summerville, South Carolina drops to 19 degrees, tying for the coldest ever in March for that location, as well as the coldest so late into the winter and early spring.
The so-called "Ides of March" Tornado Outbreak occurs. There are reports of 6 tornadoes, including an EF-2 near Springfield, Georgia and other near Rincon in Springfield County, Georgia and a third near Martin in Allendale County, South Carolina. Unfortunately there are many injuries. More Details
The US Forest Service reports 2 wildfires, one of 80 acres and the other of 10 acres, about 7 miles east of Bonneau in the Francis Marion National Forest.
Today is the median last freeze date at Hampton, South Carolina.
Almost simultaneously there are two F2 tornadoes that impact Jenkins County, GA. One is in the Thrift Community southwest of Millen and the second is the Red Mill Community northeast of Millen. Over $300,000 damage to dairy farms and three homes. Meanwhile, severe thunderstorms moved through Hilton Head Island, destroying 3 mobile homes, damaging 3 cars and injuring 2 people.
Severe storms produced golf ball size hail that covered the ground near both Newington and Manassas in Georgia.
The combination of strong winds and low relative humidity fueled several wildfires in parts of our SC counties.
A late winter or early spring surge of cold arctic air invades the southeast, dropping temperatures down into the 20s in many communities away from the immediate coast. The coldest was 20 degrees at Wambaw in Charleston County.
The Cumbee Wildfire which started on March 14, grows to an estimated size of 1600 acres in the Francis Marion National Forest, about 6 miles east of Huger, before becoming contained.
Today is the median last freeze date at Hampton, South Carolina.
Almost simultaneously there are two F2 tornadoes that impact Jenkins County, GA. One is in the Thrift Community southwest of Millen and the second is the Red Mill Community northeast of Millen. Over $300,000 damage to dairy farms and three homes. Meanwhile, severe thunderstorms moved through Hilton Head Island, destroying 3 mobile homes, damaging 3 cars and injuring 2 people.
Severe storms produced golf ball size hail that covered the ground near both Newington and Manassas in Georgia.
The combination of strong winds and low relative humidity fueled several wildfires in parts of our SC counties.
A late winter or early spring surge of cold arctic air invades the southeast, dropping temperatures down into the 20s in many communities away from the immediate coast. The coldest was 20 degrees at Wambaw in Charleston County.
The Cumbee Wildfire which started on March 14, grows to an estimated size of 1600 acres in the Francis Marion National Forest, about 6 miles east of Huger, before becoming contained.
Today is the median last freeze date for Claxton, GA and Moncks Corner, SC.
Strong offshore wind results in blow-out tides in the Fort Pulaski area.
The temperature reaches 90 degrees at the Charleston Airport, which ties it for the hottest in the month of March.
A line of severe thunderstorms impacted much of southern SC and southeast GA, with numerous reports of trees down and hail as large as quarters in a few spots.
Strong offshore wind results in blow-out tides in the Fort Pulaski area.
A magnitude 3.0 earthquake occurred near Summerville, SC. The earthquake was felt weakly to lightly by many people across the Charleston tri-county area. More Details
Extremely strong offshore wind results in significant blow-out tides in the Fort Pulaski area, which makes it the lowest tide level in recorded history at that location.
An EF0 tornado touches down in a heavily forested area near Appleton in Allendale County during the pre-dawn hours. Later that day there are numerous reports of severe weather in the Charleston quad-county area and in Beaufort County, mainly from large hail. The largest was a report of 2 inch hail on Daufuskie Island, SC.
The temperature hits 92 degrees in downtown Charleston, which ties it for the warmest during the month of March.
An MCV causes large hail and wind damage in several areas north of Interstate 16 in Georgia. Earlier in the day a small M1.4 earthquake occurs about 5 miles south of Summerville, SC.
The temperature hits 92 degrees in downtown Charleston, which ties it for the warmest during the month of March.
A large wildfire occurs near McClellanville, South Carolina, with parts of Route 17 closed and 3 structures burned. Other smaller wildfires were noted around other parts of southern South Carolina and southeast Georgia during this time, all of which were fueled at least partially by 30 mph winds and low humidity levels.
There are reports of a little sleet in the Savannah area during the early morning.
Today is World Meteorological Day, which is celebrated every year to commemorate the creation of the World Meteorological Organization in 1950. More Details
The highest recorded temperature in March were reached with 93 degrees at Beaufort, South Carolina and 94 degrees at Savannah.
The Ogeechee River at Rocky Ford crested at 13.92 feet, the highest on record.
The South Carolina Forestry Commission reported a large wildfire started on March 23 in northern Charleston County, 5 miles north-northeast of McClellanville. The wildfire was fully contained on March 25. The wildfire burned 2600 acres over the 3 day period, resulting in the destruction of 16 non-residential structures, evacuation of the Germantown and Santee Communities, the opening of a shelter at the St. James-Santee Elementary School, and the closure of Highway 17 from Highway 45 north to the Charleston/Georgetown County line. Damages as a result were estimated between 1.5 and 2 million dollars.
The combination of radiation fog and sea fog impacts much of the coastal waters and the Charleston Harbor with visibility down near zero at times. The Charleston Harbor was closed for several hours as a result.
A large complex of thunderstorms produces flash flooding in the Charleston area, winds near 50 mph at Fort Sumter and Fort Johnson, SC and dime to nickel sized hail near Garden City, GA.
The South Carolina Forestry Commission reported that the Sand Ridge Wildfire located 6 miles west-southwest of Dorchester, South Carolina, started on March 24, burning 1247 acres before being contained on March 25. Evacuations were ordered for 60 to 70 homes due to the wildfire. No structures were lost due to the wildfire and 67 structures were saved, including 52 homes, 13 barns, and 2 churches. Other wildfires driven by gusty winds and low relative humidity affected locations near Ludowici, Georgia and Johns Island, South Carolina.
Today is the median last freeze date for McClellanville, SC.
The famous "first correct tornado forecast" is issued by Air Force weather officers E.J. Fawbush and Robert C. Miller. A tornado struck Tinker Air Force Base in Oklahoma City on March 20th, and both noticed similar conditions on March 25th. As a result they correctly forecast conditions that were favorable for another tornado on March 25th.
An early spring frost and freeze impacts many locations inland, with readings down into the upper 20s to middle 30s across much of southern South Carolina and Southeast Georgia. The cold spots were Cottageville and Round O in South Carolina at 28 degrees, and Guyton, Georgia at 29.
Strong winds developed in wake of deep low pressure in the Atlantic, producing 35-45 mph wind gusts in many communities. The highest recorded speeds were 48 mph atop the Don Holt Bridge in the Charleston area and 46 mph at Fort Pulaski, GA.
For the second year in a row strong winds develop[ed in wake of deepening low pressure in the Atlantic. This resulted in wind gusts past 35 or 40 mph in most locations, with the highest winds of 51 mph atop the Don Holt Bridge in North Charleston, 49 mph on Tybee Island, 46 mph at the Beaufort MCAS, and 45 mph at Fort Pulaski and Buoy 41008.
Today is the median last freeze date for Allendale, SC.
Dense sea fog impacts the Charleston Harbor and nearby Atlantic waters of Charleston County with visibilities down to 1/2 mile.
An early spring frost and freeze occurs, with temperatures as cold as 30 degrees in Witherbee, Cottageville and Round O, all in South Carolina. 
Two tornadoes; an EF1 and an EF0 hit north of Portal, Georgia.
More Details.
Another early spring freeze occurs across many far northern and northwestern locations. The cold spot was Allendale at 26 degrees.
Today is the median last freeze date for Walterboro, SC.
The temperature in downtown Charleston falls to 28 degrees, which is not only a record low for the date, but is also the latest date of a freeze at that location.
For the second day in a row severe weather hits the Low Country and Coastal Empire, mainly from Beaufort County southward, with almost 90 reports of severe weather. Most of the reports are for large hail, some the size of baseballs. More Details.
For the second morning in a row an early spring freeze occurs across many northern and northwestern locations. The cold spots were Allendale at 25 degrees and Awendaw at 27. In addition, frost was also observed in many communities.
