An F1 tornado travels 2 miles as it skips along the ground, uprooting trees and damaging building near Hampton Park in downtown Charleston.
A short-lived F1 tornado touches down on the outskirts of Hampton, SC.
Today marks the last day of the longest stretch of days greater than 90 degrees at the Savannah airport. For 43 straight days the mercury topped out higher than 90 degrees at that location.
Significant long period swells reached the Georgia coast from distant tropical storm Colin. That along with persistent northeast winds and a Perigean spring tide further enhanced conditions for rip currents. The Tybee Island lifeguards and Tybee Island Fire Department reported numerous rip currents being observed along the beach, with 2 near-drownings and 24 additional rip current related rescues. Tybee Ocean Rescue Squad pulled both victims from the water and transported them to the Memorial Medical Center.
Tropical Storm Cristobal in the Atlantic is responsible for generating extra high tides along the coast, with coastal flooding and areas of beach erosion.More Details
A waterspout is sighted in the Broad River near the St. Helena Sound, while a 3.2 earthquake occurs near Summerville.
Long period swells from distant tropical storm Colin, along with persistent northeast surface resulted in several rip currents at Tybee Island, where the lifeguards reported 12 rescues and 14 assists.
An outbreak of severe weather occurs in southeast GA with 30 reports of wind damage. This included wind damage to farm buildings, an aircraft hangar and a home near Stillwell.
Today marks the last of 3 straight days on Tybee Island where there were a total of approximately 52 rip currents. As a result of those rip currents, 39 people were rescued, of which 2 needed to be hospitalized.
For the second day in a row there is an outbreak of severe weather in parts of the area. There are 39 reports of wind damage, including trees on homes in the Metter and Reidsville areas.
An active morning for waterspouts, with 4 sightings off the coast of Tybee island.
There were almost three dozen reports of severe weather from Screven County, GA across parts of SC, and then eventually into the SC coastal waters of the Atlantic. Unfortunately one person in Cottageville, SC was injured as a tree went through their house. More Details
A busy late afternoon and evening occurred, with 32 reports of severe weather between 5 and 9 pm that impacted many areas from Jenkins and Screven Counties in Georgia, to Allendale County and than Colleton, Dorchester and Charleston Counties in South Carolina.
A hurricane makes landfall near Georgetown, with several ships and crops in the Charleston area damaged.
A hurricane makes landfall near the border of South Carolina and Georgia.
Several waterspouts are sighted around 10 miles off the coast of Folly Beach.
Unusually high tides resulted in coastal flooding in parts of the Savannah area, in addition to closing the east bound lanes of Highway 80 near the Bull River.
A Cat 2 hurricane makes landfall near Beaufort, SC. It resulted in almost 8 inches of rain in the Charleston area, flooding in downtown Beaufort with water as deep as 2-3 feet, and produced a tide level of at 10.95 feet Mean Lower Low Water in Charleston and 10.65 feet Mean Lower Low Water at Ft. Pulaski.
The Charleston Pilot Boat reports a waterspout around 10 miles offshore of Charleston that lasts about 10 minutes before dissipating.
The river gage at Rocky Ford on the Ogeechee fell to 2.34 feet, the lowest in recorded history.
A Cat 2 hurricane makes landfall near Beaufort, SC. It resulted in almost 8 inches of rain in the Charleston area, flooding in downtown Beaufort with water as deep as 2-3 feet, and produced a tide level of at 10.95 feet Mean Lower Low Water in Charleston and 10.65 feet Mean Lower Low Water at Ft. Pulaski.
The Charleston Pilot Boat reports a waterspout around 10 miles offshore of Charleston that lasts about 10 minutes before dissipating.
The river gage at Rocky Ford on the Ogeechee fell to 2.34 feet, the lowest in recorded history.
The Savannah airport hits 100 degrees, while Newington, GA reaches 102.
The remnants of Tropical Storm Bonnie caused an F1 tornado and several incidents of straight line wind damage. The tornado moved through the Wild Dunes section of Isle of Palms causing widespread damage. An estimated 250 trees were blown down, several of which fell on cars. Also, windows were blown out of the cars. About 25 homes received minor roof and siding damage and a half dozen homes received moderate damage. An estimated 300 pound swing set was thrown about 15 feet. No injuries were reported.
A hurricane hits near Charleston (or as it was known at the time, Charles Town), causing considerable damage to homes, buildings and shipping.
As much as 5 to 6 inches of rain fell in Mt. Pleasant, Isle of Palms and Sullivans Island in South Carolina.
The Isle of Palms Fire Department reported two waterspouts abpout 15 minutes apart, just off the southern part of the island.
The temperature reached 102 in both the Savannah area and in downtown Charleston.
The Charleston airport hits 102 degrees.
Hurricane Charley makes landfall as a Cat 1 near Cape Romaine, producing winds as high as 74 mph at Buoy 41004, 63 mph at Isle of Palms and 58 mph at Folly Beach. There was also a weak F0 tornado that touched down twice in parts of the Francis Marion National Forest in an area between Shulerville and South Santee.
Today is the birthday of John Campanius Holm, born in Stockholm, Sweden. A Lutheran minister, he is the first person known to have taken systematic weather observations in the American Colonies, back in 1644 and 1645 at New Sweden, near present day Wilmington, Delaware. In 1959, the Holm Award was created as a way for the National Weather Service to honor cooperative weather observers for outstanding accomplishments in the field of meteorological observations.
A waterspout is sighted off the coast of Hilton Head island.
The media relays a report of a waterspout sighted near the mouth of Saint Catherine's Sound, GA.
Severe thunderstorms, possibly accompanied by tornadoes swept through Walterboro, SC, destroying over 100 dwellings and all churches. Many were left homeless as a result, with reports of at least 15 people killed.
Today marks the anniversary of the death of Sir Joseph Norman Lockyer, and English astronomer who discovered and named the element helium that he found in the atmosphere of the Sun. He also coined the name chromosphere, which describes the outermost layer of the Sun.
The temperature in Walterboro reaches 102 degrees, with 100 degrees in the Savannah area.
Today is the last day of a stretch of 18 straight days where the temperature hit 90 degrees or greater in downtown Charleston; it's longest streak on record.
A waterspout was sighted just off the coast of Tybee Island, GA.
The mercury climbs to 102 degrees at the Charleston airport.
Hurricane Diane in the Atlantic, that makes landfall near Wilmington, NC two days later, produces significant salt water flooding in and around Charleston.More Details
The Edisto River near Givhans Ferry drops to 0.40 feet, its lowest in recorded history.
A waterspout is sighted off Port Royal Sound.
An active morning for waterspouts, with sightings near Harbor Island/Edisto Island area, near Hunting Island and an additional 2 near St. Helena Sound.
Downtown Charleston receives 6.08 inches of rain.
The Savannah River near Burtons Ferry rises to 27.0 feet, the second highest since record keeping began.
An active day for rip currents, with over 20 reports of rip currents at area beaches.
A waterspout is sighted about 5 miles off the coast of Isle of Palms, SC.
Rain dumps on the Savannah area, with 8.12 inches recorded.
Tropical Storm Dennis produces 5 to 6 inches of rain in the Charleston area. More Details
Intense rainfall dumps up to 4.5 inches of rain in Statesboro in a couple of hours, resulting in approximately 20 to 25 water rescues due to flooding of a first floor apartment complex and nearby homes. In addition, 2 dams failed northeast of the Statesboro city limits.
One person unfortunately drowned in a rip current along the south end of Hilton Head Island near Sea Pines. Two others were rescued about 200 yards from the beach and transported to a hospital.
The temperature reaches 102 degrees in the Savannah area.
Although Super Typhoon Carmen was weakening as it passed over Okinawa in Japan, its eye was measured at 230 miles in diameter. This is the largest eye of any tropical cyclone that has ever been measured.
There is a sighting of a funnel cloud or possible waterspout over the ocean near Bulls Bay, SC.
