The South Santee River near Jamestown reaches its highest level in recorded history at 33.00 feet.
Today marked the last day of 4 consecutive days with temperatures greater than 100 degrees at the airport in Savannah, its longest stretch in recorded history.
A waterspout moves onshore as an F1 tornado and damages several cars, damaged a convenience store and injured 3 people as it crosses US 17 at Main Road on John's Island.
Severe storms impacted parts of southern South Carolina and southeast Georgia, resulting in reports of wind damage, hail, flooding and lightning. Some of the lightning caused a fire at a home in Summerville SC, with 3 boys also struck and injured by lightning in Goose Creek, SC.
A short-lived waterspout occurred during the morning just off the coast of Hilton Head Island.
The Savannah airport receives 5.05 inches of rain on this date.
Because of a bet, Lieutenant Ralph O'Hair and Colonel Joe Duckworth were the first to fly into the eye of a hurricane and started regular Air Force flights into hurricanes.
Severe storms produced reports of trees down in several counties of southern South Carolina and southeast Georgia.
During the afternoon an EF-1 tornado occurs in Chatham County, GA. The tornado developed rapdily due to the intersection of boundaries near Causton Bluff and traveled southeast for about 2 miles along a path up to 100 yards wide across parts of Oatland and Whitemarsh islands. There was significant damage to trees and buildings, but fortunately there were no injuries or fatalities. More Details
The Savannah airport receives 5.32 inches of rain on this date.
A waterspout Is sighted in the Wilmington River, near Thunderbolt in Georgia.
A waterspout is sighted about 2 miles offshore of the Tybee Island pier.
Tropical Storm Brenda moves through the Savannah area, and then skirts the South Carolina coast, resulting in heavy rains. More Details
A severe thunderstorm destroys 5 mobile homes and damages 3 others 12 miles southeast of Reidsville, GA. Six workers living in the mobile homes suffered minor injuries.
A storm spotter witnessed a car with people inside picked up in a rotating fashion 6 ft in the air and then dropped. While there was damage to the car, there were no injuries.
A waterspout is sighted off the coast of Folly Beach.
Excessive heat produces heat indices as high as 115-117 degrees along some of the coastal counties from Charleston to Chatham.
A 2.1 earthquake occurred near Summerville and Ladson in South Carolina.
A waterspout was observed approximately 12 miles south of Folly Beach, SC.
A brief F0 tornado touches down east of Pooler, GA.
A waterspout occurs off the coast of Kiawah, SC.
For the second day in a row excessive heat occurs; this time producing heat indices as high as 115-118 degrees along the coastal counties from Beaufort to Liberty.
The month ends as the warmest month and the warmest July on record for the Savannah area, with an average monthly temperature at the Savannah airport of 86.7 degrees.
A waterspout is observed by a mariner about 30 nm south southeast of Charleston.
A waterspout is observed about 5 nm southeast of Ossabaw Island, Ga.
Two waterspouts were observed by a mariner about 20 nm off the coast of Tybee Island.
The month ends as the warmest month and the warmest July on record for the Charleston area, with an average monthly temperature at the Charleston airport of 86.2 degrees.
Tybee Island lifeguards reported several rescues due to both rip currents and a strong longshore current.
The Edisto River near Givhans Ferry reaches its second highest level in recorded history at 17 feet.
A waterspout moved onshore as an F1 tornado at the USCG Station, with winds measured at 75-80 kt for 30 seconds. One woman injured and cars, roofs, doors and trees were damaged.
A short-lived F0 tornado blew down trees, damaged the roof of a farm building and farm equipment, and also damaged several cars north of Williams in Colleton County.
A waterspout was sighted off the coast of Tybee Island.
The all-time highest temperature at the Charleston airport occurs, when the mercury hits 105 degrees. Also on this date in 1999, downtown Charleston reaches 103 degrees, while the Savannah airport tops out at 102 degrees.
A waterspout occurs about 8 nm off the coast of Edisto Beach.
An EF-0 tornado briefly touches down on Kiawah Island, SC. More Details
A waterspout is sighted in the late morning between Hilton Head Island and Tybee Island, with another waterspout sighted less than 90 minutes later off the north end of Tybee Island.
Tropical Depression Alex which remained nearly stationary about 125 miles east southeast of Savannah becomes a tropical storm and moves northeast. It produced minimal impacts across the local area. More Details
An outbreak of severe weather impacts parts of the hail with large hail and wind damage. There are 38 reports of severe weather, including baseball sized hail in SC near Walterboro and Givhans, golf ball sized hail near Pinopolis, SC and a tree down on a home near Garden City, GA
Waterspouts were sighted off Edisto Beach and also off Isle of Palms.
Severe thunderstorms caused several trees to be blown down in and around Statesboro, Georgia, with winds estimated to be close to 70 mph.
Minor damage occurs due to an earthquake near Charleston.
A waterspout that was just off the coast of Isle of Palms briefly came ashore as an F0 tornado before dissipating.
Three years later waterspouts occurred off the coast of Folly Beach and Kiawah Island.
It must be something about August 3 and waterspouts, as yet another one is sighted on this date, just off the coast of Kiawah Island, SC.
The mercury hits the century mark in downtown Charleston.
Several waterspouts occur for the second day in a row off Kiawah Island and Folly Beach.
Three waterspouts are sighted off Blackbeard Island, Ga.
The most rain in a day during the month of August at the Savannah occurs, when 8.57 inches falls.
The temperature in downtown Charleston reaches 102 degrees.
Three waterspouts are observed off the coast of the Isle of Palms.
A waterspout is sighted off the coast of Kiawah Island.
A M1.2 earthquake occurs near Summerville, SC.
An F2 tornado touches down about 4 miles west of Hilltonia, in Screven County, GA. About twenty-five trees were snapped off and a 1000 poundcapacity grain bin, tied down with 2 1/4 foot steel stakes, was moved about 200 yards.
Today is the last day of a 38 day stretch of temperatures greater than 90 degrees at the airport in Charleston, its longest stretch in recorded history.
Three waterspouts are sighted near the mouth of the Altamaha River in McIntosh County.
Heat indices reached as high as 115-118 degrees in many areas, while actual air temperatures climbed to 102 at the Savannah Airport and 100 at the Charleston Airport.
