A brief F2 tornado touches down in the Carver Village area of Savannah, blowing the roof off a lumber company building.
The central pressure in Cat 5 Hurricane Gilbert falls to 888 millibars or 26.13 inches, making it the second most intense storm as measured by the central pressure in recorded history. More Details
Hurricane Ophelia passes north about 100 miles off the coast of Charleston, producing beach erosion, up to 1 to 3 inches of rain near McClellanville, SC and winds as high as 56 mph in the Charleston area and 69 mph at Buoy 41004. More Details
The so-called Rising Sun Hurricane makes landfall near Charleston (or as it was called at the time Charles Town), produced severe storm surge flooding and caused damage to several ships, including the 800-ton Scottish ship, the Rising Sun.
The so-called Great Hurricane makes landfall just south of Charles Town (later known as Charleston), producing severe storm surge, much property and crop damage and at least 95 deaths. It is likely the worst storm to ever hit Charleston.
A waterspout is sighted a couple of miles off the coast of Hunting Island, SC.
Hurricane Florence made landfall near Wrightsville Beach, NC on September 14 as a Category 1 hurricane with maximum sustained winds of 90 mph before stalling and then slowly moving generally southwest near the southern NC coast while weakening to a tropical storm near the SC border. The storm then tracked inland toward the SC Low Country before shifting more westerly into the SC Midlands north of the Santee River. More Details
The so-called Great Storm Hurricane made landfall north of Charleston (Charles Town), causing significant property damage and at least 70 deaths.
The Savannah area receives its all-time greatest one day rainfall, when 9.02 inches is recorded.
An F1 tornado is on the ground for 6 miles from near the Plantation Airpark in Screven County and dissipates on the outskirts of Sylvania, GA. A second F1 on the ground for 7 miles brushes by Hilltonia as it tracks northeast through Screven County.
A Cat 1 hurricane hits near Charleston.
A hurricane weakens to a tropical storm along the coast near the South Carolina and Georgia border.
Abnormally high tides impact parts of southern SC and southeast GA coastal areas, resulting in coastal flooding and areas of beach erosion.
A Cat 1 hurricane hits along the coast near the South Carolina and Georgia border, producing as much as 6 to 7 inches of rain from Charleston to Savannah.
The South Santee River near Jamestown falls to 1.83 feet, its second lowest level in recorded history.
Three waterspouts are observed off the coast of Fripp Island, SC.
A tropical storm produces damage from Beaufort to Georgetown, SC.
Three different tornadoes inpact Charleston and Dorchester counties, including an F1 in downtown Charleston and another F1 in the Old Village section of Mt. Pleasant. The last tornado was an F0 that touches down in a swampy area of southern Dorchester County.
A 2.5 eathquake occurred around 314 PM EDT about 4 miles west-southwest of Summervillle, SC.
A waterspout was sighted near the south end of St. Catherine's Island, GA.
The airport in Charleston receives 5.18 inches on this date.
Tropical Storm Iris gets too close to Hurricane Hugo and begins to weaken, while Hugo continues to gain strength.
September 21, 1760
Today marks the death of John Lining, a Scottish immigrant who lived in Charles Town. Many people in Charles Town adopted his idea with Ben Franklin about using lightning rods as protection on their homes.
Hurricane Hugo makes landfall in Charleston, SC around midnight of the 21st into the 22nd as a Cat 4 hurricane. This is the first major hurricane to make landfall in SC since Gracie in 1959. It produced the greatest storm surge and highest storm tides of 15 to 20 feet above Mean Sea Level near Cape Romain, with around 10-12 feet near Charleston Harbor. Highest winds occurred in northern Charleston County where Category 4 conditions were experienced. 78 MPH winds with gusts to 98 MPH were measured at the Charleston Airport, with downtown Charleston recording a wind gust of 108 MPH. The Coast Guard Cutter "Rambler" in the Cooper River reported a 138 MPH gust.More Details
Impressive rains impact the area, with the Charleston airport receiving its greatest one day total at 10.52 inches, while downtown Charleston receives its highest amount in September at 8.50 inches.
September 22, 1925
The Savannah area reaches 100 degrees, the latest such occurrence of 100 degrees since records began.
There are two tornadoes that impacted Allendale County in association with the remnants of Tropical Storm Helene as she moved across Georgia and South Carolina. Both an F2 and F1 tornado occurs near Martin, causing one death, six injuries and $300,000 damage. There is also an F0 tornado that briefly touches down near Perkins in Jenkins County, GA. Earlier in the day heavy rains caused flooding over the northern half of Berkeley County, especially in and around Moncks Corner.
September 23, 1975
An F2 tornado injures 8 and causes a 2 mile path of damage in Savannah.
September 23, 2005
Hurricane Rita reached the border of TX and LA near Sabine Pass as a Cat 3 and maximum sustained winds of 120 mph. The storm surge was as high as 15 feet over parts of LA, where sugar cane crop losses were estimated near $300 million. Meanwhile locally, it was an unusually hot day with readings over 90 in many areas. The highest was at Summerville where temperatures climbed to 95 degrees.
September 24, 1980
The temperature at the Charleston airport tops out at 95 degrees, making it the hottest temperature for that location so late in the year.
September 24, 2016
For the 98th and last time during the year, the temperature at the Charleston airport reaches at least 90 degrees. This is greatest number of days with a temperature of 90 degrees or higher at that location since records began in 1938.
September 25, 1956
An F0 tornado briefly touches down on Hilton Head Island not far from the present day golf course at Palmetto Dunes. Meanwhile, an F1 tornado briefly touches down in the southeast part of Candler County, GA near the Canoochee River.
Hurricane Emily passes about 900 miles east of the local area in the Atlantic, moving northeast at 45 mph and crosses Bermuda. It produced wind gusts to 115 mph at Kindley Key on the island and resulted in $35 million in damage. Meanwhile locally, temperatures reached the lower and middle 80s.
An EF-2 tornado that tracks almost 7 miles through Charleston County, impacting areas of Johns Island from about 1242 am to 1259 am, travelling from near Cane Slash Road until dissipating near Highway 17 between Main Road and Bees Ferry Road. As many as 70 to 80 homes were damaged, but fortunately no one was hurt.More Details
A small M1.9 earthquake occurs on Pine Island, just to the southwest of Edisto Island, SC.
Downtown Charleston receives 4.86 inches of rain on this date.
As part of Project Stormfury, the research program for hurricane modification, silver iodide was dropped into Hurricane Ginger. No significant effect on weakening the storm was detected.
Today is the last day of a stretch of 139 straight days where the temperature hit 80 degrees or greater in the Savannah area; it's longest streak on record.
Today is the birthday of Henry Melson Stommel, an American oceanographer and meteorologist. He was considered an expert on Physical Oceanography, such as the interpretation of data associated with large scale ocean dynamics.
A cloudy, wet and cool day in many areas, with some inland locations failing to even get out of the 60s.
A total of 6 tornadoes occurred across the area in association with Hurricane Jeanne. There were four F-0 tornadoes in GA and 2 F-0 tornadoes in SC. Significant flooding occurred in downtown Charleston due to the combined effects of high tide and heavy rains.
Chatham County Emergency Management reported that rip currents in the waters off of Tybee Island caused 3 fatalities and 2 injuries in a group of people during a religious celebration. First responders on the scene pulled 5 people out of the water and rushed 4 of them to Memorial University Medical Center. Two of those pulled from the water were pronounced dead at the hospital and crews searched area waters for a third person for 2 days following the event. This person was never found and was presumed deceased.
