Waterspouts are sighted off the coast of Kiawah and Edisto Island.
Severe thunderstorms produced numerous reports of wind damage and hail across southeast Georgia. The hail was as large as the size of baseballs near Hinesville and as large as golf balls near McIntosh in Liberty County.
The NWS Storm Survey determined that 2 EF-1 tornadoes touched down in northern Dorchester County.
Today is the last day of a stretch of 275 straight days where the temperature failed to reach 90 degrees at the Charleston airport; tying it for the longest streak on record.
One waterspout is sighted off the coast of Hilton Head Island, and later moves onshore as an F1 tornado that travels 3 miles across the island.
For the second day in a row severe storms impacted parts of southeast Georgia. Hail was reported as large as golf balls near Riceboro.
Downtown Charleston gets dumped on with 7.38 inches of rainfall.
A waterspout occurs in the Cooper River between Daniel Island and Drum Island near Charleston.
Tropical Storm Colin moves through the northeast Gulf of Mexico late on the 6th, across northern Florida after midnight, before emerging in the Atlantic off the coast of Georgia early on the 7th. As much as 3-4 inches of rain fell, there were reports of flash flooding in parts of Hampton and Jasper counties, and roads were closed in parts of downtown Charleston due to elevated tides. The highest winds were 43 knots at Buoy 41004 and 53 mph on Sapelo Island.
Tropical Storm Abby crossed northeast from near Augusta, GA into the upstate of SC. Wind gusts reached near 50 mph along the coast of SC, with moderate erosion along the coast reported from Tybee Island to McClellanville. A waterspout associated with the fringes of Abby moved onshore as a brief F0 tornado over the northeast part of Isle of Palms, SC.
Severe thunderstorms destroyed several mobile homes in Jedburg, SC, while an F1 tornado skipped along for 4 miles in Dorchester County and causes considerable damage to trees, powerlines and one house. The tornado first touched down 1 mile northeast of Grover, SC and then moved to near Byrd, SC.
A funnel cloud that passed over the Carnes Crossroads in Berkeley County, touched down briefly 7 miles southwest of Moncks Corner as a F0 tornado, damaging a mobile home and nearby metal sheds.
For the second day in a row a waterspout occurs in the Cooper River. This time it occurs north of the Don Holt Bridge in the North Charleston area.
Tropical Storm Andrea moves northeast through southeast GA and southern SC during the morning hours, with winds as high as 40 to 54 mph, rainfall as much as 5 to 7 inches and produces 2 rip currents at the Isle of Palms. More Details.
Four to five foot breakers lingering at the beaches from Tropical Storm Colin off the North Carolina coast produced a large rip current on the north end of Isle of Palms between 41st and 42nd Avenue. Two separate individuals had to be rescued from the rip current. Earlier in the day a small M1.8 earthquake occurs near Summerville.
Thunderstorms produced 1/4 to 1/2 inch hail in parts of Dorchester County.
There was a sighting of a waterspout off the coast of Hunting Island, SC.
During the early morning a tropical storm moves across southeast Georgia and extreme southern South Carolina, before emerging in the Atlantic near Edisto Beach.
An F1 tornado touched down 9 miles west of Sylvania, GA.
A waterspout was observed on the northern end of Lake Moultrie, but dissipated before making landfall. Also, two people were rescued in a rip current at the Folly Beach County Park.
Tybee Ocean Rescue reports numerous rip currents occurring on the main section of the beach, extending offshore 30 to 50 yards. One six-year old child was rescued before encountering the jetties.
It is believed that Benjamin Franklin narrowly missed electrocution while flying a kite during a thunderstorm to determine if lightning is related to electricity. More Details
Tropical Storm Alma moves across southeast Georgia and into the Atlantic near Tybee Island and Hilton Head Island. It causes a 90 percent loss to that years cotton crops. More Details
Several waterspouts were reported by the Charleston Harbor Pilots and the public in Charleston Harbor.
Two waterspouts are reported off the coast of Kiawah Island.
A severe thunderstorm produced 1.75 inch hail at Shellman Bluff in McIntosh County, Georgia.
Severe thunderstorms impacted much of southern SC and southeast GA, producing numerous reports of trees and power lines down in many locations. Unfortunately 7 people were injured near Bloomingdale in Chatham County as multiple vehicles ran into a tree that fell on Bloomingdale Road.
An F0 tornado briefly touches down in Cross, SC not far from Lake Moultrie.
The Charleston area receives record rainfall. Downtown Charleston receives not only its greatest June 1 day rainfall, but also its greatest 1 day rainfall for any month, when 10.38 inches of rain occurs. The Charleston airport receives 9.40 inches, the most ever in June since record keeping began.
Low pressure off the southeast coast produced numerous rip currents that required 4 rescues on Tybee Island.
An EF-1 tornado with estimated winds of 85 to 90 mph occurs south of Ridgeland in Jasper County, SC. More Details
A waterspout was reported by the Edisto Police Department just off the coast of Edisto Island.
A teenager unfortunately drowns due to a rip tide in Skull Inlet, between the southern end of Fripp Island and the northern end of Pritchards Island.
An earthquake of intensity V is felt near Savannah.
The morning low temperatures of 49 degrees at both the Savannah and in downtown Charleston is the coldest for the month of June.
The morning low temperature of 50 degrees at the Charleston airport in the coldest for the month of June.
A large thunderstorm that caused an F1 tornado travels northwest for 7 miles from Pritchards Island to Harbor Island in Beaufort County. It caused considerable damage to trees and one dormitory, the evacuation of 150 people and more than 100 power power outages.
The remnants of Tropical Storm Allison moved through the southeast states, producing 8 tornadoes in southern South Carolina. Fortunately none of them produced any major damage.
An F1 tornado that's on the ground for 3 miles causes numerous trees to be snapped or uprooted outside of Allendale and to the west of Seigling, SC.
Four different waterspouts are reported near and off the coast of Folly Beach.
There was a sighting of a short-lived waterspout off the coast of the Isle of Palms County Park.
NWS damage survey confirms brief F0 tornado touch down near the Medical University of South Carolina Hospital. Storm track was 1 mile long with tornado path 30 yards. Tree damage was observed at the MUSC Hospital parking lot as well as numerous cars damaged from flying debris at the hospital and nearby hotel parking lot. The tornado crossed Highway 17 and produced additional tree damage off Lockwood Blvd and damaged police cars at the Charleston Police station motorpool. Other F0 tornadoes that day were reported in Laurel Bay in Beaufort County, near Awendaw and in Lincolnville of Charleston County, and in Cross of Berkeley County. In southeast GA, an F1 touched down near Thunderbolt in Chatham County, damaging 20 homes and several vehicles. Finally an F0 tornado touched down near Springfield, causing just minor damage.
A long lasting waterspout develops off the coast near the Folly Pier.
Today is the last day of a stretch of 275 straight days where the temperature failed to reach 90 degrees at the Charleston airport; tying it for the longest streak on record.
Seven tornadoes occur as the result of Tropical Storm Alberto. This includes an EF-1 in Chatham County. More Details
The minimum temperature at the airport in Savannah falls to only 83 degrees; its highest minimum temperature for the month of June on record.
An F0 tornado briefly touches down in the Pinckney National Wildlife Refuge, causing very little damage.
The minimum temperature in downtown Charleston falls to only 84 degrees; its highest minimum temperature for the month of June on record.
An F1 tornado moves through a recreational area on Hilton Head Island, destroying a mobile home and injuring four people.
Severe thunderstorms with wind damage and hail as large as 1.5 to 1.75 inches impacts parts of southeast Georgia, as well as Jasper and Beaufort County in South Carolina.
Northeast flow between 15-20 knots persisted between a wedge of high pressure north of the region and low pressure over the Atlantic. Conditions remained favorable through the day for rip currents along the southeast Georgia coast. As a result, Tybee Island lifeguards reported 6 rip current related rescues.
The lowest recorded level occurs on the Canoochee River near Claxton, with a gage reading of 0.87 feet. The Ohoopee River near Reidsville also records their lowest level, with a gage reading of 0.44 feet.
A waterspout is sighted near the mouth of the Charleston Harbor.
A widespread severe weather event unfolded as a severe QLCS marched through the entire forecast area from north to south. Extreme instability with temperatures in the mid and upper 90s and dew points in the 70s, plus the approach of a pre-frontal surface trough and a positively tilted upper level trough caused wind damage reports in every county of the Charleston forecast area. With over 90 reports of wind damage, this was the most extensive severe weather event in the local area since 2006. More Details
A sub-tropical storm moves across the Florida peninsula and passes just offshore of the GA and SC coasts, bringing with it as much as 3-6 inches of rain in many locations.
Extremely high tides occur in the Charleston area, resulting in areas of coastal flooding.
A busy day for waterspouts, with sightings off the coast of Isle of Palms, Edisto Beach and Hilton Head Island.
An outbreak of severe weather hits parts of the area during the late evening hours. There are 35 reports of wind damage as a result.
A 46 year old man unfortunately drowns in what may have been a rip current at the beach on Tybee Island. There are 18 rip current related rescues that also occurred.
