Severe weather hits parts of southeast Georgia, including an F1 tornado that touches down at least three times near Hilltonia along its 6 mile path. There were also winds near 70 mph in a severe storm in parts of Screven County, and an F2 in Tattnall County that demolishes 3 mobiles homes and injures 3 people north of Glennville.
Downtown Charleston reaches its hottest April temperature on record at 94 degrees.
Five swimmers caught in rip currents were rescued at Tybee Island.
A severe thunderstorm produces a wind gust of 67 mph at the south end of Tybee Island.
Today is the last day of a stretch of 194 straight days where the temperature failed to reach 80 degrees in the Savannah area; it's longest streak on record.
The temperature at the Savannah airport reaches 94 degrees, the second highest on record for the month of April in the Savannah area.
An F1 tornado briefly touches down in the city of Allendale, SC causing an estimated $250,000 damage.
An F4 tornado kills at least 40 people and injures at least 300 in southeast Georgia. The tornado had an average path width of 800 yards and a path length of 55 miles. It reached a path width of 1 mile in Bulloch County, where 31 people were killed.
Beaufort, South Carolina reaches their hottest April temperature on record with a reading of 95 degrees.
Severe thunderstorms impacted parts of southeast GA, with numerous reports of trees and powerlines down in several different counties. One of the storms produced a wind gust of 81 mph at the Savannah airport and damaged several aircrafts. Storms also produced a wind gust of 91 mph on an elevated crane and knocked over a shipping crane at the GA Ports Authority.
A small M0.9 earthquake occurs in Summerville during the pre-dawn hours.
A tornado developed west of Bloomingdale in Chatham County and tracked to near the Effingham County line before dissipating. Witnesses reported the tornado consisted of double funnels.
There are 4 reported tornadoes that impact parts of the SC Lowcountry in about an hours time. There was an F1 west of Walterboro, another F1 in Summerville and a third F1 in the Francis Marion National Forecast east of Huger that dissipates north of Awendaw. An F0 tornado also occurs south of Givhans in Dorchester County.
Quarter sized hail fell near Ulmer, in Allendale County of South Carolina.
An F1 tornado travels about 3/4 mile through Berkeley County, not far from Cypress Gardens.
An F1 tornado struck the Statesboro Airport, damaging 4 planes and leaving them placed in a circle.
The temperature at the Savannah Airport reaches 95 degrees, which ties it for the hottest in April at that site.
The temperature at Summerville, South Carolina reaches 96 degrees, the hottest in April for that site.
The river level on the South Santee near Jamestown fell to 1.83 feet, its second lowest on record.
An F0 tornado near Canadys in Colleton County moved a tornado off its foundation, and damaged roofs to a barn and garage.
Downtown Charleston receives 3.67 inches of rain on this date, its greatest 1-day rainfall in April.
An F1 tornado is on the ground for 3 miles near Huger in Berkeley County, causing an estimated $50,000 damage.
Strong offshore wind results in blow-out tides in the Fort Pulaski area.
In the southeast part of Texas, the community of Taylor is deluged with 2.4 inches of rain in just 15 minutes.
The low temperature of 45 degrees in downtown Charleston is the coldest so late in the spring season.
The Savannah Airport gets dumped on with 5.62 inches of rain, its greatest 1-day total for April.
The month ends as the warmest April on record for both the Charleston airport and the Savannah airport. At Charleston the mean monthly temperature was 70.1 degrees, while at Savannah the mean temperature was 71.0 degrees.
The Community Collaborative Rain, Hail and Snow Network officially starts in Georgia. More Details
The coldest recorded May temperatures occur at both the Charleston and Savannah airports. Charleston drops to 36 degrees and Savannah falls to 39 degrees.
Large tornadoes sweep through the Charleston Harbor, when a British fleet of 40 sails were at anchor. It raised a wave 12 feet high, leaving many vessels on their beam ends. Four people drowned.
A 10 mile long F1 tornado moves through Hampton County, traveling from near Estill to an area south of Varnville before dissipating.
An F2 tornado travels from Clyo, GA and then crosses the Savannah River, before dissipating northwest of Tillman, in Jasper County, SC.
Almost simultaneously, F1 tornadoes occur near Pritchardville in Beaufort County and 3-4 miles east of Hardeeville, SC. Two mobile homes were destroyed in the Beaufort County tornado, while a 48 foot fishing boat sank off Hilton Head Island during severe thunderstorms a short time later. Meanwhile, there are 4 other tornadoes that occurred in southeast GA. An F1 near Excelsior in Candler County, an F2 that tracks 20 miles through Bulloch County from near Register to near the Screven County line which injures 30, destroys 30 homes and also produces golf ball sized hail. Two other F1 tornadoes occur in the Hillview Community of northern Tattnall County and in the northern part of Effingham County.
A devastating F5 tornado hits Oklahoma City with the highest winds ever measured in a tornado at 318 mph! More Details
Today is National Weather Observers Day, a special day for everyone that enjoys watching and observing the weather. If you're interested in becoming a Storm Spotter, go to our webpage for more information. More Details
Severe thunderstorms that knocked homes off their foundations in Lee County of SC weakened by the time they reached the local area. However, they did produce winds as high as 30 mph at the Savannah airport and 23 mph at the airport in Charleston.
A cluster of strong to severe thunderstorms developed over Dorchester County, racing east at 50 mph. Several funnel clouds developed in the cluster, with three of them briefly touching the ground as F0 tornadoes. The first occurred just outside St. George, the second west of Ridegville and the third near Goose Creek in Berkeley County.
Severe thunderstorms impacted many areas of SC and GA, generating 4 confirmed tornadoes. One was a high end EF-1 near Garden City outside of Savannah, with maximum winds of 110 mph that injured 5 people. Another EF-1 hit Hendersonville in Colleton County, a third EF-1 struck near Walterboro and the final EF-1 tornado struck near Canadys, SC. More Details
li class="dateheader">May 5, 1974
A severe thunderstorm produces golf ball sized hail and heavy rains in Savannah. There is water damage in some buildings and downed trees crushed two cars.
Severe weather impacts the area from the lower Ohio Valley to the Carolinas and Virginia. Storms weakened as they reached the local area, but still did produce a wind gust of 39 mph at the Charleston airport.
Temperatures across the area reached the mid and upper 90s; including 99 degrees from a Cooperative Observer near Millen.
A short lived F1 tornado touches down just west of Walterboro, SC and causes 1 injury. A short time later an F0 tornado briefly touches down in far northern Dorchester County near Indian Field Swamp to the north of St. George.
An F1 tornado tracks through an area near Jedberg in Dorchester County, SC, twisting and shearing off tree tops. There was also roof damage to homes and an industrial plant, and the tornado displaced 4000 pound bales of steel wire at the plant. No Injuries were reported.
A mile wide tornado destroys the town of Natchez, Mississippi about noontime, leaving 317 people dead. This was the worst tornado in the history of the United States that occurred before the establishment of the Weather Bureau.
The observation site in Savannah receives 2.10 inches of rainfall, a record for the date.
A short-lived F0 tornado touches down north of Moncks Corner, SC.
Severe thunderstorms produced hail 2 1/2 inches in diameter on Sullivans Island, SC.
A brief F0 tornado touches down near St. Stephen in Berkeley County, SC.
Lifeguards on Isle of Palms report several cuts in the sandbar and gulleys in various places along the beach. The result is several rip currents, including 1 where a 20 year old drowns after being caught in a rip current just north of the county park.
The record low temperature of 43 degrees for the date at the Savannah airport is its coldest so late in the spring season.
Shortly after midnight an F1 tornado briefly touches down near St. Stephen in Berkeley County, with the portion of a roof taken off and numerous trees snapped off and uprooted. Later that day a brief F0 tornado touches down in the Savannah area and causes minor damage to a local mall.
A strong onshore flow resulted in several rip currents along coastal GA. Tybee Island Ocean Rescue reported several rip currents that were 25 to 40 feet wide and going out 200 feet from shore along Tybee Beach between 16th and 17th Street.
The lifeguards at the county park on Isle of Palms reported several rip currents throughout the day, including 5 rescues near the pier.
Severe storms knocked down several trees in a few counties from Berkeley County to Chatham County.
For the third consecutive year on this date, the town of Codell, Kansas is struck by a tornado. The tornadoes are estimated to be F2, F3 and F4 respectively on the Fujita Scale.
The Cooperative Observer near Millen records a maximum temperature of 100 degrees.
Severe thunderstorms struck the SC Low Country, producing a rare F2 tornado near Ladson and Goose Creek. A total of four tornadoes were reported, with the first an F0 that occurred northeast of St. George in Dorchester County. A second F0 formed a short time later near Summerville, followed by the F2 that was on the ground for 10 miles, and finally another F0 near St. Stephen in Berkeley County. There were 442 homes damaged (17 destroyed, 113 major damage, and the remainder had minor damage. Areas hardest hit were Frankie Lane and Royale Road, where numerous mobile homes were located. There was a 90 year old female who was injured severely when her mobile home was flipped and thrown more than 40 feet. She died several hours later. Several eye witnesses reported seeing vortices rotating around the main funnel. This fact was born out by the damage pattern in several areas. Meanwhile in GA, a brief F1 tornado touches down near Newington in Screven County, causing around $10,000 damage. More Details
Today marks the anniversary of the so-called Mothers Day Tornado Outbreak, with reports of 5 tornadoes, wind damage and severe hail in the local area. This included an EF-4 tornado in McIntosh County, GA. More Details.
Downtown Charleston receives 4.70 inches of rain on this date.
A world record rain occurs when a mind-boggling 7.80 inches of rain falls in just 15 minutes at Plumb Point in Jamaica. Meanwhile locally, it was a dry and warm day with highs in the middle 80s.
An F1 tornado briefly touches down near Millen, GA, while in Screven County there are reports of hail as large as 2 1/4 inches in diameter, destroying or damaging many crops.
Widespread severe weather occurs during the pre-dawn and early morning hours across southeast GA, including 4 tornadoes. The first is a 9 1/2 mile track F2 tornado that cuts through the Glennville area of Tattnall County, killing 7 and injuring 4 others. The second was an F1 near Rincon and Springfield that killed 3 and injured 5 others. The next was an F1 near Denmark that kills 6 and injures 5. Miraculously there were 6 family members that escaped serious injury as their trailed blew their trailer 200 ft into a tree and disintegrating it. The last tornado is an F2 that kills 2 and injures 4 at Gum Branch near the Long and Libert County line. In Chatham County on Wilmington Island a boat house and four boats are severely damaged by a severe storm. Finally, an F1 tornado touches down for 1 1/2 miles as it moves through Summerville, SC.
Unusually high tides occur in the Fort Pulaski area, resulting in coastal flooding over parts of southeast GA.
The temperature of 98 degrees at the airport in Savannah is not only a record for the date, but also the hottest so early in the year for that location.
An outbreak of severe weather impacts the area with 48 reports of hail and wind damage. This included an F1 tornado near Ravenel, SC and an F0 near Cainhoy, SC. There was hail as big as tennis balls near Ruffin, SC, with 2 inch hail in Port Wentworth, GA and Walterboro, SC. A car dealership in Rincon suffered $1 million damage to their cars due to large hail.
A small M1.8 earthquake occurs just south of Summerville, SC.
A severe thunderstorm produced 2 inch hail and also a brief F0 tornado that caused a tied down mobile home to be blown off its foundation in Cross, SC.
Many parts of southeast Georgia were hit with severe storms, producing hail as large as golf balls near the Savannah Airport and also near Garden City, GA.
Jamestown, South Carolina is deluged by continuous thunderstorms with 7 inches of rain in less than 3 hours.
Severe thunderstorms produced sporadic wind damage across parts of southeast Georgia.
An EF-1 tornado touched down near Bloomingdale, GA with maximum winds estimated to be 90-95 mph. More Details
The temperature of 98 in downtown Charleston is not only a record for the date, but also the hottest so early in the year for that location.
Mount Saint Helens in the state of Washington erupted, spewing ash and smoke sixty-three thousand feet into the air. Small ash particles were carried to the Atlantic coast. More Details
An F1 tornado travels about 3/4 miles through Ridgeland, SC. Fortunately no one was injured.
The airport at Savannah receives 4.20 inches of rainfall on this date.
The temperature of 43 degrees at the airport in Charleston is not only a record low for the date, but also the coldest so late in the spring season.
The Tybee Island lifeguards reported multiple rip currents and 1 assist of a swimmer caught in a rip current, the result of onshore winds, small but long period swells and the recent perigee.
The Charleston airport experiences 4.88 inches, and it reverses the yearly rainfall deficit of more than 3 inches to around 1 1/2 inches of a surplus in just a few hours.
The temperature in downtown Charleston falls to 45 degrees, making it the coldest May day in recorded history.
Golf ball sized hail damages cars, trucks and considerable crops in Claxton, GA.
A brief F0 tornado touches down on Tybee island, causing damage to trees.
Two brief F0 tornadoes are reported in Berkeley County, SC. The first near St. Stephen and the second in Bonneau.
A widespread severe weather outbreak hits the area, with a phlethora of reports of hail and wind damage. This includes a report of hail in Smoaks, SC as large as 3 inches in diameter.
Tropical Storm Alberto develops about 140 miles east southeast of Charleston and moves south. Highest winds were 46 mph at the buoy at Grays Reef.
A M1.2 earthquake occurs near Summerville, SC.
