Famed weather historian David Ludlum wrote that a large tornado formed over central New Jersey and hit the town of New Brunswick. Debris was thrown into Manhattan, New York. Although the tornado unfortunately caused death and destruction, its occurrence proved fortunate for meteorologists that were able to study firsthand the track of such a storm.
An F1 tornado struck a farm near Reidsville, demolishing one building and doing extensive damage to others.
An EF 1 tornado occurs in Chatham County near Montgomery Crossroads and Harry Truman Parkway, with winds of 90-100 mph. More Details
Two to four inches or rain occurs in a short period of time in the Charleston metro area. This happens unfortunately during the evening rush hour and at high tide. This creates significant flooding of roads and generates an extensive traffic nightmare with road closures and a few vehicles stranded in the rainwater.
Tybee Ocean Rescue reported numerous rip currents occurring along all portions of the Tybee Island coast with several rescues required. Meanwhile on Folly Beach there were 2 rip currents and 2 rescues that were necessary.
For the second year in a row there are rip currents on Tybee Island, resulting in five rescues by the lifeguards.
A waterspout is sighted 2 miles southeast of downtown Charleston.
A microbusrt results in a roof collapsing at the Badcock Furniture store in the city of Hampton, SC. Five people that were inside were pulled to safety and not injured. An adjacent business had the roof lifted up and windows blown out, while at the nearby Food Lion supermarket ceiling tiles were blown out of the building. There was also minor damage to the Ben Hazel Primary school and several trees were knocked down in and around the city.
An F1 tornado briefly touches down in Summerville and damages 6 homes.
Extremely high tides occur in the Charleston area, resulting in areas of coastal flooding.
An F0 tornado touched down briefly along Highway 121 west of Mendes in Tattnall County, GA and knocks trees down across the highway.
The Charleston Tri-County area receives severe thunderstorms, some producing hail up to 1.75 inches in diameter, plus a brief EF-0 tornado in Berkeley County to the southwest of Cross. There was unfortunately one injury.
A category 1 hurricane hits near Charleston.
An F1 tornado is on the ground for 2 miles as it moves through parts of the city of Hampton, SC. Fortunately there is only minor roof damage along with numerous trees down.
Significant flooding and beach erosion occurs along the coast of southern South Carolina and southeast Georgia. Tides were unusually high as a result of the Perigean Spring Tide. More Details
Severe thunderstorms during the evening produced wind gusts of 64 mph and 68 mph at the Savannah airport. This would also be the last day in a stretch of about 9 or 10 straight days with the temperature of 95 degrees or higher across much of the area.
The temperature falls to an all-time record low at the South Pole in Antarctica, when the mercury plummets to minus 117 degrees Fahrenheit. Meanwhile locally on this date, thunderstorms dumped 2.31 inches of rain at the airport in Savannah.
Tybee Island lifeguards reported 3 rescues and 9 assists due to rip currents.
The Savannah airport receives its greatest 1-day total, when an incredible 6.65 inches of rain occurs. Also, a waterspout was sighted in the Beaufport River, not far from Waterfront Park in Beaufort.
Today is the last day of a stretch of 286 straight days where the temperature failed to reach 90 degrees in the Savannah area; its longest streak on record.
An F1 tornado briefly touches down south of Sylvania, damaging a few homes and a corn crop.
Category 1 Hurricane Bob makes landfall near Fripp Island, producing 5 inches of rain at the Charleston airport. More Details
Several waterspouts were sighted just off the coast of Tybee Island.
A tropical storm strengthens into a Category 1 hurricane as it moves north and northeast just off the Georgia and South Carolina coasts.
Four people are caught in a rip current on Sullivans Island. While 3 of them are rescued, the fourth unfortunately drowns.
A waterspout is sighted about 2 miles off the coast of Isle of Palms.
An 18 year old male drowned when he was cuaght in a rip current on Tybee Island.
A small child is rescued in a rip current near the Folly Beach Pier. Also, near Reevesville in Dorchester County, a severe thunderstorms produces golf ball sized hail.
Severe thunderstorms produced hail as large as tennis balls, or around 2.5 inches in diameter in the Shadowmoss area of West Ashley near Charleston.
Summerville in South Carolina receives 8.80 inches of rain on this date.
An F1 tornado touches down in the old village area of Mt. Pleasant, SC, causing damage to several homes and uprooting numerous trees.
There are several rescues from rip currents on Tybee Island.
An EF 0 tornado, with estimated winds of 70 to 80 mph occurs in Hanahan, SC. More Details
Three waterspouts are sighted a few miles off the southern end of Tybee Island.
Downtown Charleston receives 3.69 inches of rain on this date.
A waterspout is reported about 5 to 10 miles off the coast of Hilton Head Island.
A thunderstorm produces nickel sized hail that covers lawns in Savannah.
A severe thunderstorm destroys 5 mobile homes and damages 3 others 12 miles southeast of Reidsville, GA. Six workers living in the mobile homes suffered minor injuries.
The Savannah airport receives a whopping 6.60 inches of rain on this date.
A waterspout in the Wilmington River comes close to moving onshore near Thunderbolt outside of Savannah, before dissipating.
An EF 0 tornado hits Johns Island, resulting in 60 to 70 mph winds. More Details
Tybee Island lifeguards reported numerous rip currents, resulting in 9 rescues.
A waterspout occurs near Ladys Island in Beaufort County, then moves onshore as an F0 tornado.
Beaufort receives 7.65 inches of rain on this date.
The month ends with the warmest June on record at the Charleston airport. The average temperature for the month was 83.4 degrees, while normal is 79 degrees. More Details
Excessive heat impacted many parts of southern South Carolina and southeast Georgia, with maximum heat indices of 114-121 degrees.
There was an unfortunate drowning on the north end of Isle of Palms, SC due to what may have been a rip current. Also, a brief waterspout was sighted just off the coast of Hilton Head Island, while torrential rains produced 1.65 inches of rain in 1 hours time in Mt. Pleasant, Sc and 1 inch rain in 20 minutes time near Gifford in Hampton County, SC.
