One of the worst freezes in Florida occurs on this date, with frost and freezing temperatures across much of the state for the third day in a row. It was known as the Great Freeze, and refers to the extreme cold that destroyed much of the citrus crop. Lowest temperatures were 14 at Jacksonville, 18 in Orlando, 19 in Tampa, 24 in Fort Myers and 25 in West Palm Beach. Even Key West saw a temperature of 44 degrees. Locally we had temperatures as cold as 12 in the Savannah area and 14 in downtown Charleston.
Cold air overspread the area and changed light rain to freezing rain from the Savannah area north to Charleston and Berkeley counties as temperatures dropped to the upper 20s and lower 30s. Most bridges in the Charleston area were closed due to a glaze of ice.
Downtown Charleston records its coldest December temperature, with a reading of 12 degrees. With a high temperature of only 23 degrees, the average temperature for the day was only 17.5 degrees, also its coldest on record.
The temperature in downtown Charleston falls to 13 degrees and there are reports of ice 4 inches thick on the Santee River due to the extreme cold.
The year ends with the Charleston airport recording 68 days with a temperature at or below 32 degrees, while at the Savannah airport there were 64 such days during the year. For both locations this established the record for an entire year of readings this cold.
The year ends with the most days of 32 degrees or colder in downtown Charleston, with 30 such occurrences throughout the year.
The Savannah area receives their wettest December on record, with a monthly total of 9.44 inches.
Both the Charleston airport and downtown Charleston recorded their driest December. At the airport only 0.32 inches fell, while downtown only 0.33 inches of rain fell.
The month ends with 7 days of 80 degrees or higher at the Charleston airport, a record for the month of December.
The year ends as the wettest on record in the Charleston area, with the airport in North Charleston recording a whopping 74.89" during the year. Also, the month ends as the warmest December on record for the Charleston airport, the Savannah airport and downtown Charleston. The average temperature was 63.5 degrees at the Charleston airport, 64.2 degrees at the Savannah airport and 63.4 degrees in downtown Charleston. In addition, the month ends with the record number of days of 70 degrees of greater at Savannah (24 days), Charleston (22 days)and downtown Charleston (20 days). Finally, there were 7 days of 80 degrees of greater at the Savannah airport, it's greatest number of 80 plus days on record for December.
The year comes to an end with a mean temperature of 69.7 degrees at the Savannah airport, making it the warmest year on record at that location.
Dense sea fog closes the Charleston Harbor and also impacts the nearby Atlantic waters, as visibilities fall to near zero.

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

