A hurricane makes landfall near the city of Charleston, dumping up to 16 inches of rain and producing significant flooding across the area.
Downtown Charleston receives its most amount of rain for one day in July, when 7.11 inches is recorded.
Today is the last day of a stretch of 7 straight days where the temperature hit 100 degrees or greater at the Charleston airport; it's longest streak on record.
Today is the last day of a stretch of 42 straight days where the temperature hit 90 degrees or greater at the Charleston airport; it's longest streak on record.
Four people got caught in a rip current at Hunting Island State Park. One was able to safely escape and made it back to shore, but the other 3 unfortunately drowned.
The temperature at Beaufort reaches 104 degrees, which ties it for the hottest in July.
Downtown Charleston receives 4.71 inches of rain on this date.
A severe thunderstorm produced winds of 63 mph at the Savannah airport, and uproots trees in Garden City.
A brief F0 tornado touches down in the city of Charleston, just west of Church Street in the area between South market Street and Cumberland Street. There were no reports of injuries, with just some damage to a storage building and a couple of signs bent.
A strong line of thunderstorms races east and causes a large swath of trees to come down from Hampton County to Berkeley County. Winds are estimated as high as 70 to 80 mph in some locations.
A waterspout developed between Parris Island and Hilton Head Island, with a second waterspout sighted near Tybee Island as reported by a pilot.
A short-lived waterspout was observed by the lifeguards off of Sea Pines on Hilton Head Island.
Four people were struck by lightning on the boardwalk to the beach in the Wild Dunes area of Isle of Palms. It was also a very active day for waterspouts, with sightings of 3 spouts off Hilton Head Island, with numerous sightings off the coast of Fripp Island.
The lowest recorded level occurs on the Canoochee River near Claxton, with a gage reading of 0.87 feet. The Ohoopee River near Reidsville also records their lowest level, with a gage reading of 0.44 feet.
A waterspout is sighted near the mouth of the Charleston Harbor.
A widespread severe weather event unfolded as a severe QLCS marched through the entire forecast area from north to south. Extreme instability with temperatures in the mid and upper 90s and dew points in the 70s, plus the approach of a pre-frontal surface trough and a positively tilted upper level trough caused wind damage reports in every county of the Charleston forecast area. With over 90 reports of wind damage, this was the most extensive severe weather event in the local area since 2006. More Details
Six people are rescued at Tybee Island as a result of rip currents.
A small M1.1 earthquake occurs 5 miles south of Summerville, SC.
What was either a short-lived tornado or waterspout touches down along the eastern shore of Lake Moultrie near Bonneau Beach.
A weak tornadic waterspout is observed about 1 nm southeast of Fort Moultrie in the Charleston Harbor.
A category 1 hurricane weakens to a tropical storm as it moves northeast off the coast of northeast Florida, before passing off the coast of the southeast United States.
The Charleston airport reaches 104 degrees, which is its hottest July temperature in recorded history.
Waterspouts were sighted just offshore of Capers and Dewees Island, SC and also about 6 miles offshore of Forest Beach and Calibogue Sound, SC.
A brief F0 tornado touches down on Tybee Island.
The temperature at the Savannah airport reaches 105 degrees, which ties the hottest temperature in recorded history at that location. Meanwhile, at the Charleston airport the temperature reached 104 degrees on this date in 1986, it's second hottest on record.
A waterspout is sighted about 3 nm off the coast of Fripp Island, SC.
A M1.2 earthquake occurs near Summerville, SC.
For the second day in a row there are sightings of waterspouts; this time they are seen around 10 or 11 miles east of Tybee Island, GA. In addition, there is as much as 6 to 9 inches of rain in parts of Charleston and Berkeley counties in the morning, resulting in numerous cars that become stranded in high water.
A witness reported seeing a tornado touch down briefly three times in the uninhabited area of Butler island, near Darien, GA.
The temperature in downtown Charleston reaches 103 degrees, which ties the hottest temperature for July at that location.
Today marked the last day of 4 consecutive days with a temperature greater than 100 degrees at the airport in Charleston, its longest stretch in recorded history. Also, for the second time in less than a week there is a wind gust to 63 mph at the Savannah airport, which damages 3 aircrafts.
An active day for waterspouts, with sightings off the coasts of Isle of Palms, Sullivans Island, Hilton Head Island and Tybee Island.
Multiple long lasting waterspouts are sighted off the coast of Hilton Head Island.
Downtown Charleston receives 5.44 inches of rain on this date.
Exceptionally high tides occur, resulting in significant coastal flooding and beach erosion across the area.
For the second day in a row there are multiple waterspouts off the coast of Hilton Head Island, as well as another sighted in Wassaw Sound, GA.
July 23, 1988
The Ogeechee River near Midville drops to its lowest level in recorded history, with a gauge reading of minus 2.30 feet.
July 23, 2000
Waterspouts are observed off the coasts of Isle of Palms and downtown Charleston, with one moving onshore as an F0 tornado on Isle of Palms and causing $200,000 damage.
July 24, 1952
The temperature in Walterboro reaches 106 degrees, the hottest in July for that location.
July 24, 2009
Large long periods swells in combination with astronomical influences from a recent new moon, resulted in numerous rip currents at Tybee Island. There are at least 60 rip currents that were observed and 8 rip current related rescues were necessary throughout the day.
July 24, 2010
One person was caught in a rip current at Isle of Palms, but was able to swim out safely.
July 24, 2018
There are waterspouts seen twice this day; one just off Bennetts Point, SC, with a second sighted around 11 miles south-southeast of Bennetts Point, SC.
July 25, 1966
A waterspout is sighted in St. Catherines Sound, GA.
July 25, 1983
Severe thunderstorms moved through parts of Charleston, Dorchester and Beaufort counties. Lightning hits several homes in Charleston, one person was injured by fallen powerlines in St. George and a boat was sunk in Beaufort.
July 25, 1986
An F1 tornado touches down 3 miles south of Sylvania near Greenhill, causing a mobile home to roll into a car and trapping one person inside, who was not injured.
July 25, 1988
The Ogeechee River near Eden drops to 1.88 feet, its third lowest level in recorded history.
July 25, 2018
The lifeguards at Kiawah Beachwalker Park rescued one person caught in a rip current outside their guarded area.
