The Savannah airport receives 4.10 inches of rain on this date, the second highest total for the Savannah area during the month of April.
The first weather satellite, TIROS 1 starts sending pictures back to earth. Nearly 20,000 satellite images would be transmitted back to earth during its two and a half month lifetime. More Details.
Today is the last day of a stretch of 161 straight days where the temperature failed to reach 80 degrees at the Charleston airport; it's longest streak on record.
Two day rainfall totals reached 3 to 5 inches in many locations of southern South Carolina and southeast Georgia.
The longest stretch of temperatures below 80 degrees at the Charleston airport ends today, after 161 straight days.
An F0 tornado briefly touches down in the Abercorn and Lamara Heights areas of Savannah.
An F0 tornado travels about a mile and damages 2 homes near Ridgeland, SC.
Torrential rains fall in Claxton, Georgia, with up to 8 inches in 3 hours. Several roads are severely flooded, with motorists stranded in their vehicles. In some cases the water came so high that it trapped people in their homes.
An EF0 tornado briefly touched down about 2.7 miles east of Gifford, SC in Hampton County. Thr tornado caused only minor damage to small trees, while nearby there was more widespread tree damage associated with straight line winds. Also, another severe storm caused hail up to 2 inches in diameter near McIntosh in Liberty County, GA.
Today is the median last freeze date for Yemassee, SC and Millen, GA.
Dense sea fog impacts most of the Atlantic coastal waters and Charleston Harbor with visibilities down to 1/4 mile or less.
Today is the death of Hugh Robert Mill, a Scottish geographer and meteorologist who was influential in the reform of geography teaching, and in the development of meteorology as a science. He was director of the British Rainfall Organization from 1901 to 1919, editor of British Rainfall and Symons Meteorological Magazine, and honorary secretary of the Royal Meteorological Society from 1902 until 1907 (when he became president). He had a profound influence on the development of meteorology, which was recognized by the institution of a Hugh Robert Mill medal given by the society, with Mill as the first recipient.
An F0 tornado briefly touches down on Hutchinson Island, near Savannah.
An outbreak of severe weather due to a derecho hits parts of the area during the early morning hours, with 33 reports of wind damage. This included trees down on a home near Perkins, GA, homes that were destroyed or sustained damage near Portal, GA, 25 homes in Rincon, GA that sustained minimal damage, and a tree on a home near Eulonia, GA. Cars were also damaged by fallen trees and tree branches in Rincon and near Eulonia.
More Details.
For the second time in 2 days severe weather hits the area. A squall line in advance of a strong cold front produces around 2 dozen reports of wind damage and large hail in many parts of the area.
The lowest recorded temperature for April occurs at the Charleston Airport and in Beaufort; 29 degrees at Charleston and 31 degrees at Beaufort.
Strong offshore wind results in blow-out tides along coastal areas.
An F1 tornado touches down briefly in Hampton, SC, causing minimal damage.
A tornado developed west of Bloomingdale in Chatham County and tracked to near the Effingham County line before dissipating. Witnesses reported the tornado consisted of double funnels.
An F1 tornado impacts the area near Hardeeville, SC, causing numerous trees to be uprooted or snapped off, shingles taken off of nearby roofs, and several other buildings damaged. This F1 tornado was spawned by the same supercell that produced the F3 tornado earlier in Bryan County, Georgia that moved into western Effingham County and lifted with no further touchdown until the Hardeeville area.
An F1 tornado tracks through the city of Allendale to near Ulmer, causing roof damage to several buildings, with numerous trees and powerlines down along its path.
A large outbreak of severe thunderstorms impacted much of southern South Carolina, southeast Georgia and the adjacent Atlantic coastal waters, 2006 as a potent storm system moved across the region. Four confirmed tornadoes occurred along the central South Carolina coast during this event. More Details.
The Savannah Airport drops to 28 degrees, its lowest April temperature. Summerville SC also has their coldest April temperature, when the mercury falls to 27 degrees. This late season cold snap produced widespread frost and freezing temperatures across much of South Carolina and Georgia. Overall damage to both states were at least a 200 million dollar loss due to damaged fruit and vegetable plants.
An EF-0 tornado touches down near Bluffton, SC with estimated winds of 75 mph.
More Details.
Today marks the anniversary of the death of Vilhelm Bjerknes, who is considered by many to be one of the founders of modern meteorology and weather forecasting. More Details.
An F0 is on the ground for about 3/4 miles, impacting the area near the SW Historic District of Savannah.
An F1 tornado "skipped" along the south side of Savannah for almost 11 miles. It destroyed two buildings and damaged a store and fire station. Damage was estimated up to $1 million and there were 10 injuries.
An outbreak of early morning tornadoes occurs across southesat GA, killing 6 and injuring 48 others. The first is an 8 mile long and 440 yard wide F3 that strikes north of Pembroke and Ellabell in Bryan County and destroys 74 homes and buildings. The tornado weakens to an F2 as it moves into a sparsely populated area of Effingham County near Eden. The tornado damages 40 homes and destroys 6 mobile homes. Then there is an F2 tornado that touched down in the Rye Patch Community of Long County where 3 people died (all were in mobile homes). Ten mobile homes were destroyed and two others were damaged along with a roof blown off a block house. Three people are kiled and another 24 injured. Then there is an F2 tornado that moved from Long County into Liberty County, which encompasses much of Fort Stewart Army Base. One soldier was killed while in a building and seven others were injured. Seven buildings were destroyed while another fifty-five suffered damage. Property damage is estimated at $38 million. The last tornado occurs in Bryan County to the west of Richmond Hill and is rated as an F1.
Severe thunderstorms impact Berkeley County in South Carolina, with hail as large as tennis balls (2.5 inches) and winds as high as 64 mph.
More Details.
Strong offshore winds resulted in blow-out tides along the coast.
A new world record wind speed was recorded in Barrow Island, Australia during Typhoon Olivia, with a peak wind of 253.5 mph. Meanwhile locally, the wind April 11, 2009
The area in and near Martin, of Allendale County in South Carolina is hit by two tornadoes. The stronger tornado was an EF2, with a path length of 5.6 miles long and 500 yards wide impacts the area and completely destroys the historic Cave Methodist Church. Thankfully there were no injuries.More Details.
at the Savannah airport reached 24 mph, while at the Charleston airport the wind reached 28 mph.
An EF-1 tornado causes an estimated $1 million property damage near Martin in Allendale County, followed by a stronger EF-2 tornado near Baldock in Allendale County that also causes an estimated $ 1 million damage. This tornado was on the ground for 5.6 miles and completely destroyed the Cave Methodist Church, but thankfully no injuries.
The area in and near Martin, of Allendale County in South Carolina is hit by two tornadoes. The stronger tornado was an EF2, with a path length of 5.6 miles long and 500 yards wide impacts the area and completely destroys the historic Cave Methodist Church. Thankfully there were no injuries.More Details.
A wind gust of 231 mph is recorded atop Mount Washington, New Hampshire, making it the fastest surface wind ever observed in the Western and Northern Hemispheres and the fastest wind ever observed at a manned surface station.
A brief F0 tornado touches down on Hilton Head Island near Broad Creek. A short time later an F1 tornado touches down and travels 2.5 miles on James Island. Earlier an F0 tornado was on the ground for 1/2 mile on Tybee island, near Fort Screven and the Tybee Island Lighthouse.
This is the only day in April where the record high temperature at the Savannah airport for the month has failed to reach at least 90 degrees. The record high for this day is only 88 degrees, last set in 2008.
Today is the birthday of our third president and the "father of weather observers", Thomas Jefferson. For over 50 years Jefferson took weather observations. He would compile a 5 year study on weather conditions in Paris, France and compared them to conditions in Virginia. He also experimented with hygrometers (used to determine relative humidity), and worked extensively on the collection of climate data, ensuring that the Lewis and Clark Expedition did the same. More Details.
The Savannah River near Clyo crests at 26.00 feet, its second highest in recorded history.
An F0 tornado briefly touches down along the northern fringes of the Charleston Air Force Base.
Severe thunderstorms moved through parts of southeast Georgia, producing wind damage and hail as large as golf balls in Liberty and Long County. In addition, an EF1 tornado hits southeast of Townsend in McIntosh County, Georgia. The track of the tornado is 8 miles long and 770 yards wide. Although there was damage to trees and some structures, fortunately nobody was injured.More Details.
The Savannah airport receives 3.50 inches of rainfall on this date, almost 1/2 inch greater than its entire April monthly average of 3.07 inches.
The heaviest hailstone on record of 2.25 pounds fell in the Gopalganj district of Bangladesh.
An EF-1 tornado touches down near Townsend, GA with estimated 100 mph winds.More Details.
The South Santee River near Jamestown crests at 32.00 feet, its second highest level in recorded history.
The Charleston Airport receives it greatest calendar day rainfall in April, when 4.10 inches of rain was recorded.
Strong offshore wind results in blow-out tides in the Fort Pulaski area.
An F2 tornado is on the ground for 3 miles near Ulmer, SC in Allendale County, destroying twenty acres of watermelons and rolling over a large tractor several times. Later that day a second tornado, this time an F1 moves through Colleton County near Ritter and Green Pond.
Severe thunderstorms produced 3 separate F1 tornadoes in Colleton County, resulting in 7 injuries. Thunderstorms winds also reached 60 mph in downtown Charleston. More Details.
The temperature falls to 32 degrees at the Savannah Airport, the latest date of a freeze at that location.
Strong offshore wind results in blow-out tides along many coastal areas.
A tornadic waterspout moves across Lake Moultrie and hits Saint Stephen as an EF1 tornado.
The temperature at the Savannah Airport reaches 95 degrees, which ties it for the hottest in April at that site.
Unusually high tides occur in the Fort Pulaski area resulting in minor coastal flooding.
Today is the last day of a stretch of 199 straight days where the temperature failed to reach 80 degrees in downtown Charleston; its longest streak on record.
What was a single tornado touches down in at least 9 areas as it moves east-northeast through Georgia. About 30 people were injured, but miraculously, no one was killed. Damage was estimated around $2 million. The tornado, rated an F2 traveled about 16 miles from rural Long County into Liberty County, hitting near the town of Fleming. Four homes were completely destroyed and 1 person was injured. When the tornado was moving through Liberty County, it was traveling more than 40 mph. It had one of the longest tracks of any tornado in Georgia, at close to 250 miles. The time between the first and last appearance of the tornado was about 7 hours.
Just two days after blow-out tides occurred, an unusually high tide results in flooding over parts of coastal Georgia.
The latest freeze occurs at the Charleston Airport on this date.
But in contrast the highest April temperature at the Charleston Airport occurs on this date when the temperature reaches 95 degrees.
A waterspout was sighted about 2 to 3 miles off the coast of Isle of Palms.
Large hail fell in various areas of southern South Carolina and southeast Georgia, while strong thunderstorm winds forced a sailboat to run aground at the jetties near the entrance to the Charleston Harbor.
The temperature of 41 degrees in downtown Charleston that occurred on this date is the coldest temperature at that location so late in the spring season.
An F1 tornado is on the ground for around 5 miles as it skirts the eastern portions of the Savannah city limits before dissipating as it reaches the Savannah River. There are no reports of injuries or fatalities.
An F1 tornado travels about 1/2 mile and causes minor damage near St. George in Dorchester County. There is also an F1 tornado that tracks 5 miles across far northern Candler County, GA. It causes livestock to be killed, minor damage to a home, a boat lifted off a trailer and thrown 1/4 mile and damage to farm equipment.
One inch hail fell in parts of Effingham County, Georgia.
Severe weather hits parts of southeast Georgia, including an F1 tornado that touches down at least three times near Hilltonia along its 6 mile path. There were also winds near 70 mph in a severe storm in parts of Screven County, and an F2 in Tattnall County that demolishes 3 mobiles homes and injures 3 people north of Glennville.
Downtown Charleston reaches its hottest April temperature on record at 94 degrees.
Five swimmers caught in rip currents were rescued at Tybee Island.
A severe thunderstorm produces a wind gust of 67 mph at the south end of Tybee Island.
