The location of the downtown Charleston weather observing program moves from Broad Street to the US Custom House on East Bay Street.
Severe thunderstorms overturns several mobile homes in Statesboro, and causes an F1 tornado in Effingham County. The tornado tracks from Guyton to Springfield, demolishing storage houses and damaging a mobile home, barn and one business.
Unusually high tides produce coastal flooding and beach erosion across parts of coastal Charleston and Colleton County.
Today marks the start of a 5 day stretch of temperatures down into the teens and 20s across the local area.
The National Weather Service fully implements the Enhanced Fujita or EF Scale to rate tornadoes. More Details.
Large isallobaric pressure rises behind a strong cold front produced wind gusts of greater than 40 or 45 mph in many areas. Peak winds were 49 mph near White Bluff in Chatham County, 49 mph atop the Don Holt Bridge in North Charleston and 45 mph at the Beaufort Marine base and in Sylvania. Winds at Fort Sumter in the Charleston Harbor hit 50 mph and the Edisto Buoy, 41004 was the winner at 52 mph.
Today is the last day in a stretch of 12 straight days where the temperature fell to 30 degrees or colder at the Charleston Airport. This is the longest stretch of days this cold in recorded history at the airport.
The so-called Groundhog Day Tropical Storm, that formed the day before near the Yucatan peninsula, passes about 300 miles off the SC and GA coasts on this date. It is the only Atlantic tropical cyclone on record in the month of February, and produces as much as 2 to 3 inches of rain in SC and up to 1 inch in GA.
An F0 tornado briefly touches down on Main Street in Sylvania, GA.
An EF-1 tornado touches down in the Fort Stewart/Hinesville area in GA. Estimated speeds are up to 110 mph with a path length of almost 6 miles. Dozens of homes were damaged, but thankfully there were no fatalities. More Details.
From just before midnight on the 3rd until around 130 am on the 4th, in wake of a gravity wave, winds as high as 65 to 75 mph hit the Charleston Harbor and nearby communities. Most of the damage was to boats and docks in the harbor, while only one person sustained injuries. More Details.
Light snow fell across parts of Colleton and the Charleston Tri-County area, with a band of enhanced snow from off Lake Moultrie resulting in a dusting of snow from Saint Stephen to Moncks Corner.
Today is National Weatherpersons Day, which celebrates the birth of John Jeffries in 1744, one of the first American weather observers. This is also the day to recognize the people who provide Americans with the best weather forecasts and warning services in the world. More Details.
This marked the 4th day in a row with dense sea fog impacting most of the marine area, including the Charleston Harbor, which was closed and re-opened to navigation several times during this stretch.
Today is the median last freeze date for downtown Charleston.
An F0 tornado touches down near Reidsville, damaging a hospital building and a 911 facility.
Today marked the third straight day of sea fog impacting the southern South Carolina and southeast Georgia marine area, which includes the Charleston Harbor. Visibilities at times fell to near zero.
There are several reports of sleet from the Charleston Tri-County area and Screven County during the evening hours. However, no accumulations occurred given warm ground temperatures and air temperatures well into the 40s.
Today is the last day in a stretch of 13 straight days where the temperature fell to 30 degrees or colder in the Savannah area. This is the longest stretch of days this cold in recorded history at the location.
Low tide levels are recorded in Charleston, with a gauge reading of minus 2.23 feet Mean Lower Low Water.
The tide level at Fort Pulaski reached 10.51 feet Mean Lower Low Water.
Intense low pressure in the nearby Atlantic produces a wind gust of 45 at Buoy 41004 off the coast of SC. A cold air wedge behind the low causes a little sleet to occur across parts of the Charleston Tri-County area in the afternoon.
Noted Weather Historian, David Ludlum, documents a temperature of zero degrees Fahrenheit at Savannah. There are also records of a temperature down to 1 degree in Charleston. This so-called "Great Freeze" ended attempts to commercially grow citrus in southeast SC and southeast GA, and also in northern FL.
Today is the last day in a stretch of 13 consecutive days of a minimum temperature of 30 degrees of colder in the Savannah area. This ties it for the longest such streak at this location.
The greatest 1-day snow at the Savannah Airport occurs on this date, when 3.6 inches of snow fell.
A magnitude 1.9 earthquake occurs during the predawn hours near Ladson, SC.
The beginning of the National Weather Service we know today started on this date when President Ulysses S. Grant signed a joint resolution of Congress authorizing the Secretary of War to establish a national weather service. More Details.
For the second day in a row, temperatures across the area fell into the teens, even at the beaches.
An EF-2 tornado impacted parts of Bulloch and Effingham counties during the pre-dawn hours. Several mobile homes were either completely destroyed or heavily damaged. Despite a path of destruction of nearly 11 miles, no one was killed, although there were seven injuries. More Details
The second greatest 1-day snows occur at both the Charleston airport and the Savannah airport. Charleston receives 5.4 inches, with 3.2 inches at Savannah. More Details
Snow impacts parts of the area, with 2 inches at Saint George, 1 inch at Summerville and in downtown Charleston, with a trace in Savannah.
For the second day in a row blow-out tides occur along the coast, the result of strong offshore winds.
An early Valentine gift is brought to the area in the form of a big snowstorm. On average 3-6 inches of snow fell in South Carolina, with 1-3 inch amounts common in southeast Georgia. The big winners were Summerville at 8.2 inches, Saint Stephen with 8 inches, and Smoaks and Reevesville at 7 inches. More Details.
For the second time in 2 weeks many parts of the area is hit by an ice storm. In parts of SC this is actually a worse event than the previous one, with as much 0.75 to 1.00 inches of ice in Berkeley, Dorchester and Colleton counties. Widespread power outages; some lasting for days. The Ravenel Bridge was again closed for almost 2 days. More Details
Dense sea fog closes the Charleston Harbor and also impacts the nearby Atlantic waters, as visibilities fall to near zero.
Downtown Charleston receives its greatest 1-day snowfall, when 3.2 inches is observed. Meanwhile the Savannah area receives 2 inches of snow.
EF-1 tornadoes hit near Sylvania and Allendale, with a 105 mph downburst striking just northeast of Sylvania. More Details
The all-time record low of 7 degrees in downtown Charleston occurs on this date.
A 6 to 8 acre brushfire burned near Moncks Corner.
A trace of sleet is reported at Portal, Georgia around daybreak.
During the late evening a 4.1 earthquake occurred near Edgefield, SC, north of Augusta, GA. There were reports that it was felt in parts of the local area. More Details
1.8 inches of snow fell at Savannah on this date.
Strong offshore winds produce blow-out tides across all coastal areas.
The temperature at the Charleston airport reaches 87 degrees. This is the warmest on record for February and also the warmest so early in the year. Also, the temperature at the Savannah airport reaches 86 degrees, its warmest so early in the year and tied for its warmest temperature in February.
Strong winds and a little winter weather impacts parts of the area as deep low pressure develops off the mid-Atlantic coast. Sleet covers the ground in Pinopolis, SC and various locations of the Tri-County area of Charleston report flurries. Winds reached as high as 49 mph at Buoy 41004
A QLCS rakes through the entire forecast area during the overnight and pre-dawn hours, resulting in damage across parts of Chatham, Liberty and Evans Counties in GA. Winds reached as high as 65 mph at Buoy 41004, 60 mph at Fort Stewart and 53 mph at the Folly Beach Pier.
The coldest temperature ever recorded in the Colonial South occurs in Charles Towne (Charleston), with a reading of 10 degrees.
Dense sea fog closes the Charleston Harbor and also impacts the nearby Atlantic waters, as visibilities fall to zero.
Dense sea fog closes the Charleston Harbor and also impacts the nearby Atlantic waters, as visibilities fall to zero.
Dense sea fog impacts the nearby SC Atlantic waters, as visibilities fall to near zero.
A 50 acre wildfire occurs near Bonneau in Berkeley County.
Numerous vessels either run aground or become stuck on the bottom of the waterways in and near the Charleston Harbor, as blow-out tides occur.
Moderate to strong offshore winds and the recent Perigean Spring Tide resulted in blow-out tides along the coast. Less than 20 hours earlier there was actually shallow coastal flooding along the coast.
Today is the median last freeze date for Sapelo Island, GA.
Downtown Charleston receives 2.53 inches of rain on the date, which is more than its average February monthly total of 2.51 inches.
An F1 tornado travels 1/2 mile through Pineville, north of Lake Moultrie, causing one injury.
Dense sea fog impacts much of the nearby Atlantic waters and the coastal counties of SC and GA, with visibility down near zero at times. Charleston Harbor is shut down as a result.
Strong northeast winds and the Proxigean Spring Tides resulted in moderate to major coastal flooding impacts over many locations near and along the coast.
Today marked the first day of a stretch of 9 consecutive days with the temperature of greater than 70 degrees in the Savannah area. This ties it with 1996 for the longest run of days reaching higher than 70 degrees in February.
Dense sea fog closes the Charleston Harbor and also impacts the nearby Atlantic waters, as visibilities fall to near zero.
Today is the birthday of our first president, George Washington, born on Pope's Creek in Westmoreland County, VA. He was a serious weather observer, and took his last weather observation just a few days before he died. He would commemorate the end of the Revolutionary War by commissioning a “Dove of Peace” weather vane from Joseph Rakestraw in 1787, for his estate at Mount Vernon. It is still there today.
Widespread fog that developed over nearby land areas moves into the Charleston Harbor and the adjacent Atlantic waters, resulting in visibilities under 1/4 mile.
Strong offshore wind results in blow-out tides in the Charleston area.
Severe thunderstorms produced a downburst with winds estimated as high as 85 to 90 mph in the Savannah metro area. More Details.
Also on this date in 2012, an EF-1 tornado hits near Islandton, in Colleton County, with 3 mobile homes damaged. More Details.
li class="dateheader">February 24, 2015
Parts of Berkeley, Charleston, Colleton and Dorchester counties received freezing rain, enough for a glaze or as much as 2/10 of an inch of ice on tree tops, vehicles and elevated metal surfaces such as the Ravenel Bridge.
Tropical storm force wind impacted the entire forecast area of SC and GA all day, with several reports of trees down, including one on a house in Savannah. Some of the highest winds included 54 mph at the Charleston International Airport, 49 mph at the Savannah Airport, 47 mph at Buoy 41004 and 46 mph in Mt. Pleasant and Hinesville.
Four inches of snow is recorded in Summerville, 2 inches in downtown Charleston, and 0.5 inches in Savannah.
A cold air mass overspreads the area, causing low temperatures from the single digits in many places far inland to around 20F near the coast. The observer on Sullivan's Island, SC indicated on their observation form that there was "saltwater frozen on rock barrier".
The South Santee River near Jamestown falls to its second lowest level in recorded history, when the river drops to 1.83 feet.
The temperature reaches 87 degrees at the Savannah airport, making it the warmest February temperature on record at that location.
Downtown Charleston receives 1/10 of an inch of snow on this date.
Strong winds are observed across the area, with speeds as high as 59 mph near Remleys Point, SC, 54 mph on the Don Holt Bridge in Charleston, 49 mph at the Charleston airport and 45 mph at Fort Pulaski.
Strong low pressure moving through the nearby Atlantic produces winds as high as 58 mph at Buoy 41004 and 47 mph at Buoy 41008.
A waterspout moves onshore as an F1 tornado on Edisto Beach, causing some damage to a few homes. A short time later a second F1 tornado damages 2 homes and felled a number of trees on Johns Island, SC.
A strong coastal storm impacts parts of South Carolina and Georgia from today into the 28th. Winds reach as high as 40 to 50 mph, with a wind gust of 66 mph in Pineville, near Lake Moultrie. Moderate to severe erosion also occurs along the Atlantic coast.
Heavy snow, possibly as much as 6 inches, collapsed the Ashley River Bridge in Charleston.
The month ends with the wettest February on record at the Charleston airport, with 10.47 inches of rain. It was also the wettest February on record at the Savannah airport with 9.75 inches of rain. More Details.
The month ends as the warmest February on record at the Charleston and Savannah airports, and third warmest on record in downtown Charleston. At Charleston the average monthly temperature was 62.0 degrees, or more than 10 degrees above normal. At Savannah the average monthly temperature was 63/.5 degrees, or 10.5 degrees above normal. In downtown Charleston the average monthly temperature was 59.9 degrees, or more than 7 degrees above normal.
Thompson Pass in Alaska finishes the month with 346.1 inches of snow, the highest monthly total ever for Alaska. Compare this with the highest February totals of 7.1 inches at the Charleston Airport in 1973, 3.9 inches in downtown Charleston in 1899 and 3.6 inches in the Savannah area in 1968.
