A tropical storm produces a tornado near the city of Charleston.
A category 2 hurricane makes landfall near Apalachicola, Florida, then weakens to a tropical storm over southeast Georgia, before moving into the South Carolina midlands.
The lowest temperature for the day is a sultry 86 degrees in downtown Charleston, which ties it for the highest minimum temperature in recorded history at this location.
Much of the Charleston forecast area was impacted by the remnants of Tropical Storm Bill as it tracked across northern GA. A outbreak of tornadoes occurs, including an F1 near Scarboro in Jenkins County, an F2 north of Statesboro, another F2 near Route 301 along the Bulloch and Screven County lines, another F2 south of Sylvania, an f1 in northern Bulloch County and finally an F1 near Ogeechee in Screven County, GA. Fortunately no one was hurt. Meanwhile, an F-1 tornado touched down just southwest of the city of Hampton, SC, damaging a retail store when three of the walls collapsed almost completely. Several homes were also damaged when trees fell on top of them. The tornado length was 10 miles and the average width was 100 yards. Less than an hour later a second F-1 tornado touched down just south of Smoaks, SC in Colleton County. A mobile home suffered roof damage and one car was crushed by a fallen tree. The tornado length was 1 mile and the average width was 100 yards.
A waterspout is sighted off Sullivans Island, South Carolina.
For the third day in a row excessive heat occurred across southern South Carolina and southeast Georgia, with maximum heat indices of 116-121 degrees. The pattern then changed dramatically as a wide ranging severe thunderstorm event unfolded later that evening, with dozens of reports of wind damage across several counties.
Smoke from huge wildfires in western Canada traveled more than 2000 miles and blanketed the area with a dirty looking sky.
Weather historian, David Ludlum reports that an alligator supposedly fell from the sky in a thunderstorm on Anson Street in downtown Charleston.
Several waterspouts were sighted off the coast from Isle of Palms to Edisto Beach, South Carolina.
Lightning strikes in Chatham County, GA caused a fire at townhomes near Bloomingdale and injured a person near Meinhard.
A squall line raced through southern SC and southeast GA producing more than 3 dozen reports of wind damage. Riceboro in Liberty County and Beaufort were the hardest hit with numerous trees down in both areas, causing widespread power outages.
A tropical depression moves east northeast through Georgia to off the coast of southeast South Carolina.
The Charleston airport records 5.39 inches of rain on this date, making it the most for a 1 day period in recorded history during the month of July.
Three people are struck by lightning on Tybee Island and transported to the hospital. Meanwhile, Hurricane Arthur passes by to the east over the Atlantic and produced wind gusts as high as 67 mph at Buoy 41004.
For the second day in a row a squall line moves through the area; this time confined to the SC counties and Screven and Jenkins County in GA. Again there are more than 3 dozen reports of wind damage, which included a wind gust to 62 mph at the Charleston Airport. Widespread power outages were reported in the Charleston metro-area, and there was a waterspout off the south end of Folly Beach.
Early Weather Pioneers in the United States: George Washington; a serious weather observer, who took his last weather observation just a few days before he passed away. He commemorated the end of the Revolutionary War by commissioning a Dove of Peace weather vane for his estate in Mount Vernon, which still stands there today. Thomas Jefferson; an avid weather observer that took weather observations for over 50 years. He worked extensively on the collection of climate data, and compiled a five year study on the comparison of weather in Paris with those in Virginia. Jefferson envisioned a nationwide network of weather observers as early as 1797, that began when he outlined a plan providing weather instruments to at least one person in every county in Virginia. His plan finally became realized in 1891, when the Department of Agriculture's New Civilian Weather Bureau was established. Benjamin Franklin; he was the first to observe that storms move in an opposite direction than of the direction of the wind. He accurately theorized about the existence of high and low pressure, and he proposed one of the first correct explanations for the movement of storms in the Northern Hemisphere. He is the first scientist to study and map the Gulf Stream, and he is the inventor of the lightning rod. Finally, his publication "Poor Richards Almanack" contained weather forecasts for the original colonies. James Madison; considered to be Virginia's earliest Weatherman. From 1784 to 1802 he compiled over 16,000 weather observations at Montpelier, and in 2003 researchers used that information to determine that the spring rains had come about a month earlier during that period in Colonial Virginia than had previously been known. One of those researchers indicated that the weather records of Madison and Jefferson met the highest scientific standards of the time. John Lining; an early weather pioneer whose home is still in downtown Charleston on the corner of King and Broad Streets. He began recording temperature observations as early as 1730, and he researched the possible connection between disease and the weather. He along with Benjamin Franklin promoted the use of lightning rods for protection of buildings during thunderstorms.
The greatest 1 minute rainfall in recorded world history occurs at Unionville, Maryland, when an incredible 1.23 inches of rain fell. A total of 2.84 inches fell in a 50 minute thunderstorm that moved through the area. Compare that to the highest 1 day totals locally for July 4th of 3.26 inches at the airport in Charleston, 2.24 inches in downtown Charleston and 2.09 inches in the Savannah area.
The lifeguards at Tybee Island reported several rip currents, with 2 rescues and 16 assists needed.
Numerous reports and pictures indicated that a brief waterspout occurred along the Little Ogeechee River just south of Coffee Bluff Marina in Chatham County. There is also another waterspout sighted off the coast of Wassaw Island.
The coolest July temperature ever recorded occurs at the Charleston airport, when the temperature falls to 58 degrees.
An F1 tornado touches down in Hanahan, SC, traveling about 1/2 mile before dissipating.
An F0 tornado briefly touches down in Ellabell of Bryan County, GA.
A severe thunderstorm destroys or heavily damages 20 boats on Hilton Head Island.
A brief waterspout is sighted in the Ashley River near the Westmoreland Bridge in Charleston.
One person drowned due to a rip current at Hilton Head Island, while a second person was hospitalized due to swallowing ocean water after being caught in a rip current at Tybee Island.
The temperature reaches 104 degrees at Beaufort and 103 degrees in downtown Charleston. Both of these temperatures are tied for the hottest in July at their respective location.
A waterspout occurs in the marsh near Sunbury, in Liberty County of Georgia.
A waterspout was sighted about 3 miles southeast and just offshore of the Hilton Head airport. A second waterspout was also spotted just off the coast of James Island.
An F2 tornado unroofs three homes and causes golf ball size hail west of Hilltonia, in Screven County, GA.
Several National Guardsmen were stunned and one suffered serious injury when lightning hit nearby.
Several waterspouts are sighted off the coast from Fripp Island, SC to Tybee and Ossabaw Island, GA.
An onshore flow and elevated swell resulted in numerous rip currents and 16 rip current related rescues on Tybee island.
Downtown Charleston receives 5.89 inches of rainfall on this date.
During the late evening Category 1 Hurricane Cindy makes landfall in McClellanville. The tropical cyclone produced heavy rainfall which led to considerable flooding and at least 1 death. More Details
Today marks the latest occurrence of the first 90 degree day in downtown Charleston.
Savannah receives 4.08 inches of rainfall on this date.
An onshore flow and elevated swell resulted in numerous rip currents and 5 rip current related rescues on Tybee island.
At precisely midnight the scientific genius and visionary inventor Nikola Tesla was born in Croatia. Some of his notable accomplishments included his discovery of ball lightning and his production of artificial lightning. He is also the first scientist in the world who wanted to utilize the ionosphere for the benefit of humanity, by transmitting electrical energy without wires over long distances.
The greatest 1 day amount of rainfall in July occurs at the Savannah airport, when 5.36 inches is recorded.
The Savannah pilot boat reports a thunderstorm wind gust to near hurricane force in the Atlantic near Buoy Tango.
An outbreak of severe weather occurs across parts of the area, with 48 reports of wind damage. This includes roof damage and several windows broken at a home in Pinopolis, SC. There is also a tornadic waterspout that is sighted over the southeast part of Lake Moultrie.
Severe thunderstorms produced wind damage and hail as large as 1.25 inches in parts of southeast Georgia. Over the nearby Atlantic waters there was a wind gust to almost 70 mph at Grays Reef.
An outbreak of severe weather occurs across parts of the area, with 48 reports of wind damage. This includes roof damage and several windows broken at a home in Pinopolis, SC.
Lifeguards at Beachwalker Park on Kiawah, SC reported a waterspout just off the coast. Later that night and in Allendale County, SC torrential rains washed a few vehicles off the road and flooded a home near Seigling.
July 11, 2014
A waterspout is sighted by lifeguards just offshore and to the northeast of the county park on the Isle of Palms.
The temperature for the day at Savannah ranged from a minimum of 86 degrees to a maximum of 105 degrees. The minimum temperature was the highest in recorded history, the maximum tied for the highest ever, while the average temperature of 95.5 degrees was its highest on record.
July 12, 1962
An F1 tornado caused heavy damage just outside the southwest part of Savannah. Barns were unroofed and there was considerable damage to rare trees at the USDA Plant where 2.49 inches of rain fell in 75 minutes.
July 12, 1986
Today is the last day of a stretch of 5 straight days where the temperature hit 100 degrees or greater in the Savannah area; it's longest streak on record.
July 12, 1996
Although Hurricane Bertha remained offshore, it still produced winds as high as 60 mph at Folly Beach, 59 mph at Buoy 41004, 58 mph in downtown Charleston and 45 mph at the Charleston airport. More Details
July 12, 2013
There were reports of 2 waterspouts just off the coast of Tybee Island in the late afternoon. Also, torrential rains occur in Allendale County, SC with a report of 6.2 inches measured in Allendale and caused a dam to break at Don Houck Pond which flooded roads nearby.
July 12, 2014
Multiple short-lived waterspouts were seen in St. Helena Sound.
July 12, 2018
Multiple rip currents were reported by the lifeguards on the Isle of Palms near the county park, extending offshore for 75 yards. Four rescues occurred due to the rip currents.
July 13, 1980
Extremely hot weather across the area, with a temperature at Newington, Georgia of 110 degrees, 104 degrees in Savannah and 103 at Walterboro.
July 13, 2005
A waterspout was observed in the Broad River near Beaufort. There were also 2 brief F0 tornadoes that touched down near Pritchardsville and near Beaufort.
July 13, 2008
Long period swell reaching the beaches along with a persistent onshore flow, resulted in numerous rip currents at Tybee Island, resulting in at least 20 rescues.
July 13, 2010
Flash flooding occurs in parts of Dorchester County, with water up to 2 or 3 feet deep in several locations. Meanwhile, intense rains near Midway in Liberty County, Georgia produced over 3 inches of rain in an hour.
July 13, 2013
A variety of weather on this date. First a waterspout briefly moved onshore of Hunting Island as a tornado, before moving back over the water and dissipating in the mid morning. Later that day another waterspout was observed for about 5 minutes just off the Forest Beach area of Hilton Head Island. Also on that day and in the afternoon, the lifeguards on Isle of Palms reported a very strong rip current north of the pier at the county park. Two people got caught in the current and were rescued, before being taken to the hospital for water inhalation. If that wasn' enough, an earthen dam at the Herbert Jacobs Farm in extreme southern Screven County failed in the late evening. It washed away several large trees across Route 17 and closed roads in the area.
