The temperature at the Charleston airport and in downtown Charleston climbs to 99 degrees. The airport temperature is the highest in May, while the downtown temperature ties the May record.
A 2 mile long F0 tornado touches down in the morning on James Island, not far from Fort Johnson.
The greatest 1 day rainfall in May occurs at the Charleston airport, when they receive 6.23 inches of rain.
A M1.7 earthquake occurs near Summerville, SC.
An F1 tornado briefly touches down about halfway between Hinesville and Midway, GA.
A small F2 tornado touched down at the Savannah Golf Club, and unfortunately injures two people.
The greatest 1 day rainfall in May for downtown Charleston occurs, when they receive 5.40 inches of rain.
An EF-1 tornado touches down near the southern end of Wilmington Island, GA, before strengthening to an EF-2 tornado as it approached Fort Pulaski. The tornado exited into he Atlantic as a strong tornado/waterspout where it apsized a 48 foot fishing vessel, the "Miss Debbie". Three crew members went missing and unfortunately were presumed to be dead.
Gabriel Fahrenheit is born in Germany. He made the first reliable thermometers, and the temperature scale he created is named after him. More Details
Strong thunderstorms produced wind gusts as high as 45 mph at the Savannah airport and 39 mph at the Charleston airport.
A tropical depression moves across southeast Georgia into South Carolina, resulting in heavy rains and flooding.
Today marks the earliest recorded temperature of 100 degrees at the Savannah airport.
A small F1 tornado hits the city of Charleston about 130 miles east of the center of Tropical Depression Alma. Another tornado, this one an F2 hits Tybee island and then touches down at Lazerreto Creek, 2 1/2 miles away.
Two girls in Savannah suffered minor injuries when lightning struck nearby and there is widespread flooding of streets and basements in the city.
An F1 tornado damages mobile homes in the Pooler, GA area.
Today is the last day of a stretch of 320 straight days where the temperature failed to reach 90 degrees in downtown Charleston; it's longest streak on record.
A 23 year old male drowned due to a possible rip current between Stations 23 and 24 on Sullivans Island.
Strong westerly winds in wake of a cold front produces blow-out tides in Charleston Harbor and the immediate near shore waters.
The 99 degree reading in downtown Charleston ties the highest for the month of May.
The Canoochee River near Claxton peaks at 16.58 feet. This is the second highest since records began, and floods homes in the area.
A waterspout is sighted 1 mile east of Tybee Island.
Sub-tropical storm Beryl was situated far out in the Atlantic, but its associated swell energy at the beaches resulted in rip currents and 48 rip current related rescues on Tybee Island.
Unusually hot weather impacted the southeast states, with ten cities reporting record highs for the date. Locally, it reached a record high for the date of 98 degrees at both the Charleston and Savannah airports.
Sub-tropical storm Beryl became a Tropical Storm as it moved west toward the northeast FL coast. Associated swell energy and strengthening onshore winds resulted in numerous reports of rip currents on Tybee Island.
A brief F0 tornado touches down in McIntosh County, near Eulonia, GA.
The 48 degree reading at the airport in Savannah and the 45 degree reading at the airport in Charleston are their coldest temperatures so late in the spring season.
An F1 tornado moved northward through downtown Summerville, causing extensive damage to businesses over a 6 block area.
As Tropical Storm Beryl moves west across northeast FL, the system produces dangerous surf on the GA beaches, with numerous rip currents on Tybee island.
Tropical Storm Bonnie impacts the area as it makes landfall as a tropical depression north of Isle of Palms, SC the morning of the 29th, makes a complete counter-clockwise loop before emerging into Bulls Bay, SC early on the 30th. It then skirts the coast of far northern Charleston County the morning of the 30th, before pulling quickly away to the northeast. While there were wind gusts to as high as 40 mph in a few places, the biggest impacts occurred from torrential rains. Many locations received as much as 4 to 8 inches of rain, with the highest amount of an incredible 10.36 inches near Ridgeland, SC. This resulted in water entering some homes and businesses, and actually shut down parts of I-95 due to the flooding rains.
An F1 tornado causes damage to homes and trees as it travels almost 7 miles across St. Helena Island, SC.
Tropical Depression Beryl, which hit northeast Florida as a strong tropical storm, then stalled in southern Georgia, turns back to the east and northeast. It then moves through the entire forecast area before reaching the Atlantic early on May 30. It produces winds over the coast and nearby Atlantic waters of greater than 50 mph. Rain amounts were as high as 5 to 6 inches in Jasper County, with reports of flooding in Jenkins County. At least 70 people needed to be rescued at Tybee Island due to rip currents. More Details
The temperature at Savannah reaches 101 degrees, tying it for the hottest in May.
Strong winds accompanied by heavy rain swept through the Savannah area, toppling partially complete concrete walls at a construction site and injuring 3 workers.
A 4 mile long F1 tornado moves across James Island, SC and damages or destroys several large road signs, uproots trees or snaps them off, and causes minor damage to several homes. Thankfully no injuries were reported. The tornado then passes into Charleston Harbor as a large waterspout.
Six people are rescued in rip currents at the Isle of Palms County Park.
A tropical storm makes landfall near Hilton Head Island.
The temperature at the Savannah airport reaches 101 degrees, tying it for the hottest in May. Also, the total rainfall at the Charleston airport from March 1 through May 31 was only 2.60 inches. This is the lowest total on record for those 3 spring months.
An F0 tornado travels northeast for more than 4 miles from near Cottageville then crosses the Edisto River and dissipates just inside Dorchester County, SC.
Several waterspouts are sighted off the coast of Tybee Island.
One person drowns in a rip current on Hilton Head Island.
An active day for waterspouts, with sightings 3 miles southeast of Fort Sumter, another near Fort Pulaski and a brief EF-0 tornado on Kiawah Island that may have initially developed as a waterspout before it moved onshore. More Details
The month ends as the wettest May on record at the Savannah airport, with total rainfall for the month of 11.54 inches.
The month ends as the wettest May on record at the Charleston airport, with a total rainfall for the month of 10.62 inches.
The temperature in downtown Charleston reaches 100 degrees, making it the earliest to reach the century mark at that location.
Tybee Island lifeguards reported numerous rip currents resulting in 3 rescues and 9 assists during the day.
The coldest June temperature at the Charleston airport occurs, when the mercury drops to 50 degrees.
Downtown Charleston records a temperature of 104 degrees, tying it for the hottest temperature in recorded history. Meanwhile, the Savannah airport also reaches 104 degrees, making it the hottest in June for that location.
A brief waterspout is observed by the Beaufort County EM just off the coast of Hilton Head Island.
A hurricane struck South Carolina with a glancing blow, resulting in trees and fences that were leveled in Charleston.
In the midst of an early season heat wave that lasted several days, temperatures around the area topped out over 100 degrees. This included 108 at Yemassee, 104 near Millen, and 103 at Fort Stewart and the Savannah airport.
